SMILE SERIES
PUPIL'S BOOK
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
NATIONAL CENTRE FOR CURRICULA AND EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (NCCER)
SUDAN MODERN INTEGRATED LEARNING OF ENGLISH
3 THREE
PUPIL'S BOOK
GRADE 5
BASIC LEVEL
BOOK 3 - GRADE 5
SMILE SERIES
SMILE SERIES
SUDAN MODERN INTEGRATED LEARNING OF ENGLISH
3 THREE
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
The Republic of the Sudan
Federal Ministry of Education
The National Centre for Curricula and Educational Research (NCCER)
Sudan Modern Integrated Learning of English
SMILE Series: Book 3 (A)
Pupil's Book
Grade 5: Basic Level
Lead Writer:
Stephen Thompson
Written by:
Abdelsadig Awad Abdelsadig
Ahazeej Abdellateef Abdelkareem Ali
Attayib Tajaddin Attayib Mahmoud
Emtithal Alwasila Abdallah Ahmed
Dr Helene Fatima Idris
Hassan Taj Al-Sir Al-Hassan
Lona Louise Soiney
Mohammed Musaad Mohammed Elamin
Salah Ahmed Mohammed Joda
Developmental Editors:
Jacquelyn D. Kunz
Timothy McVicar
Consultants and Special Advisors:
David Vale – International Consultant
Prof Abdelrahim Hamid Mugaddam Hammad – National Consultant, University of Khartoum
Dr Hamdan Ahmed Hamdan Abuanja – Special Advisor for Writing and Training, Head of English Language Department, NCCER
I
Illustrated by:
Amani Zain Elabden Mahgoub
Ali Mohamed Ali Abdelrahman
Israa Abdulla Abdul Rhman Mohammed Ali
Mahmoud Saad Karsani
Rawan El-Sayed Ahmed El-Badawi
Designed by:
Dylan Rhys Watkins
Reviewed and Revised by:
Dr Hamdan Ahmed Hamdan Abuanja – Head of English Language Department, NCCER
Dr Yousif Khalid Mohammed Masaad – NCCER
El-Fateh Mohammed Abdul Essalam – NCCER
General Administration and Technical Supervision:
Her Excellency, Ustaza Suad Abdel-Razig – Minister of General Education
Dr Muawia Elsir Ali Mohammed Gashi – Director General, NCCER
Prof Attayeb Ahmed Mustafa Hayati – Director General (former), NCCER
Dr Abbas Sha’a Eddin – Deputy Director General, NCCER
Ali Mohammed El Jack – Deputy Director General (former) and Head of Curricula Administration (former), NCCER
Dr Abdalrauf Khidir – Head of Curricula Administration, NCCER
Dr Hamdan Ahmed Hamdan Abuanja – Head of English Department, NCCER
Hashim Hamza – Project Implementation Unit Manager, World Bank
Robin Davies – Country Director, British Council
Charles Nuttall OBE –Country Director (former), British Council
Liana Hyde – ELCR Project Director, Horn of Africa, British Council
Dr Yasir Hassan Hussein – Head of English for Education Systems, British Council
Reimaz Hashim Salih – ELCR Project Manager, British Council
Dr Wail El Kheir Shuaib – ELCR Project Manager (former), British Council
Eman Muawia Babiker Abdalla – ELCR Project Coordinator, British Council
II

Introduction
More than 20 years have passed since the publication of SPINE, the current English curriculum taught at basic and secondary stages in Sudan. Since the publication of SPINE, a lot has changed in terms of methodologies, learning trends and educational guidelines.
This new English language curriculum, SMILE (Sudan Modern Integrated Learning of English), is specially tailored to Sudanese pupils in general education and it is intended to replace the SPINE Curriculum. It is a response to the decision made at the 2012 Educational Policy Conference to introduce Sudanese pupils to the English language earlier to improve the English language standard in Sudan.
The Federal Ministry of Education and the NCCER-Bakhter-Ruda in partnership with the World Bank Basic Education Recovery Project (BERP) and in collaboration with the British Council in Khartoum, worked to produce the SMILE Curriculum.
The SMILE Curriculum is the result of collective work done by national and international material writers, consultants, special advisors and artists, all under the supervision and administration of the NCCER.
The introduction of English language learning in the basic level grades aims to prepare Sudanese pupils to participate productively in the 21st century. Pupils will become aware of the significance of English as an international means of knowledge and communication.
The SMILE series is comprised of the following components:

A Pupil’s Book.

An Activity Book.

A Teacher’s Book.

CD/ Mp3s.

Posters/ Flashcards.
The SMILE series is a pupil-centred, standards-based curriculum. It targets phonics and makes use of cross-curricular topics and enjoyable learning activities to motivate younger learners. Both print and cursive handwriting
III

are introduced from the very beginning of the course. The SMILE Curriculum intends to develop a positive attitude towards English as a foreign language and teaches the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) simultaneously.
The SMILE Curriculum adopts communicative approaches for teaching English as a foreign language at the basic level in Sudan. Communicative mechanisms such as Total Physical Response (TPR), storytelling, guessing games, roleplays, body language, problem solving drills, spelling practice, phonic drills and the incorporation of cross-curricular material ensure that pupils are exposed to many ways to practise English communicatively.
The SMILE Curriculum’s evaluation and assessment methods utilise both formative and summative approaches. At all levels, assessment emphasises the achievement of both standards and their indicators for each grade, aiming to attain and guarantee a high quality assurance curriculum and to confirm a High Stake Standards Benchmark (HSSB) syllabus. Moreover, at all levels, a cross-curricular dimension that also includes life skills, morals, traditions and values has been incorporated thoroughly into the content of the syllabus; adding relevance and cohesion with the rest of the basic level curricula subjects.
By the end of the basic level at grade 9 pupils should:

have developed a positive attitude towards the English language.

have participated in enjoyable pupil-centred learning, which employs the use of interactive drills, simple stories, rhymes, chants, language games, phonic activities, arts, project work and integrated language skills development.

have built their confidence and self-esteem through active use of the language.

have acquired a strong foundation for the four linguistic skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing.

be able to understand, reply to and participate in dialogues, roleplays and interviews using a variety of lexical sets and formulaic expressions.

be able to read and write a variety of different text types for a variety of purposes suitable to their age group.
IV

have developed various life skills, including critical thinking, problem solving and decision making.

have received positive input about their own Sudanese culture and that of English speaking countries.

have raised their awareness about the diversity of cultures within Sudan.

have developed cross-curricular skills.

be able to read and understand national and international supplementary readers in later grades.

have received inclusive teaching and encouragement regardless of linguistic aptitude and performance through the use of special educational teaching strategies.

have been exposed to examples of modern technology.

have achieved level B1 of the Common European Framework (CEF).
SMILE textbooks consist of twelve units which follow a consistent format: every unit has eight lessons. Lesson 8 is always a revision of the previous lessons of the unit. Most units include two recordings; these are of dialogues, chants and/or stories. Most units also include a story. Unit 12 revises learning from previous units, while for Books 2 – 7, Unit 1 consolidates learning from the previous year’s book.
We hope that the SMILE Curriculum will be accessible to pupils, teachers, supervisors and parents.
With best regards,
Dr Hamdan Ahmed Hamdan Abuanja
Head of the English Language Department – NCCER
Bakht-er-Rudha, November 2016.
V

Acknowledgements
The Director General of the National Centre for Curricula and Educational Research (NCCER) would like to extend his sincere compliments and thanks to the following people and institutions for their hard efforts and invaluable contributions to the development of the SMILE Series particularly Book 3 for Grade 5 – Basic Education.
British Council, Khartoum, Global Partnership Education (GPE), Sudan National Centre for Languages (SUNACEL/SELTI), English Language Institute – University of Khartoum, Department of Linguistics – University of Khartoum, Institute of Languages – Ahfad University, Capital Radio, Council of British International Schools (COBIS), Sudan Volunteer Programme (SVP), Dr Amna Mohammed Bedri (Ahfad University), Dr Christine Thorne (ELT Consultant), Ali Idris Saeed El Haj (British Council), Amal Al-Kashif (Basic Education Recovery Project (BERP), World Bank), Yousif Karrar Eltahir (Basic Education Recovery Project (BERP), World Bank), Victoria Pevitt (former Head of English for Education Systems, Horn of Africa, British Council), Dr Thomas Ian Young (Music Consultant), Malik Ahmed Abdel-Khaliq (ELCRP Material Writer), Mohammed Farrah, AlRazi El Basheer, Azza Abdalla Elzaidabi, Ragad Hammad, Kareem Wail, Momin Amin Diyab, Ayman Mamoun, Ayia Mostafa, Tasneem Ahmed, Hala Mostafa, Shahd Amro, Aassir Amro Isam Mustafa, Ali Salman, Sabq Elsadig Awad, Abeer Abdalla Elzaidabi.
VI
Sudan
Modern
Integrated
Learning of
English
SMILE Series: Book 3
Pupil’s Book
Grade 5: Basic Level
VII
Bakht-er-Rudha, Federal Ministry of Education – Sudan (NCCER), all rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recorded or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the copyright holder.
VIII
Table of Contents
Unit | Topic | Page
1 | Back to School | 1
2 | My Family and My Community | 9
3 | Clothes | 17
4 | Animal Partners | 25
5 | Helping Hands | 33
6 | Travel and Holidays | 41
IX

Unit 1 Back to School Lesson 1

Listen, read and chant.
Hassan Salah Osama
Sara Mona Elham
Welcome back from holiday,
Welcome back to school today.
It was nice with your family, with your mum and dad.
But you’re with your friends, so don’t be sad.
There’s Science and Maths. Lots of subjects are new.
There’s Geography and History and English, too.
Smile! Be happy! Be happy you are here,
to learn lots of new things in school this year.

Ask and answer about the school subjects.
Day / Time | 08:00 | 08:45 | 09:30 | 10:15
Sunday | Arabic | Geography | Science | Islamic Studies
Monday | History | Islamic Studies | English | Maths
Tuesday | Arabic | English | Science | History
Wednesday | Islamic Studies | Maths | Arabic | Science
Thursday | Maths | Geography | English | Arabic
When is Science on Sunday?
It's at half past nine.
What days have we got History?
We've got History on Monday and Tuesday.
Pupil's Book 3
1

Unit 1 Lesson 2

Read and match.
A I was with my family in Khartoum. It was fun.
B I was at my uncle’s farm in El Obied. We were busy.
C I was in Port Sudan with my brother. My holiday was nice.
D I was in Dubai with my aunt and her family. It was very hot.
Hassan Osama
Sara Mona
[Image 1: Cityscape with a tall building, possibly Burj Khalifa]
[Image 2: Farm with animals like sheep, goats, and chickens]
[Image 3: Harbor with boats and the sea]
[Image 4: Modern building, possibly Burj Al Arab, and a bridge]

Say sentences about the children's holidays.
Hassan was in Khartoum with his family. It was fun.

Ask and answer about your holiday.
A Where were you? B Who were you with? C What was your holiday like?
Pupil's Book 3
2

Unit 1 Lesson 3

Read, point and complete. Then listen, check and say.
country dark
elephants fly
grow land
swim walk
[Images of: a palm tree by water, desert with camels, mountains, cattle at night, Dinder Park with elephants and deer]
Along the River Nile, dates (A) grow on tall palm trees.
Sharks (B) swim in the warm waters of the Red Sea.
Camels (C) walk on the sand through the desert heat, and birds (D) fly over the mountains of the west and the east.
Farmers look after their cattle in the evening (E) dark.
Elephants and deer live in Dinder Park.
Every man, woman and child across our great (F) land...
stand up and say: 'This is our (G) country... This is our Sudan.'

Make and say sentences.
A dates / grow / tall palm trees
B sharks / swim / waters / Red Sea
C camels / walk / through / desert heat
D birds / fly / mountains / west / east
E farmers / look after / cattle / evening dark
F elephants / deer / live / Dinder Park
Dates are growing on tall palm trees.
Pupil's Book 3
3

Unit 1 Lesson 4

Listen and match. Then ask and answer.
[Image A: Secretary bird walking]
[Image B: Secretary bird with chicks in a nest]
[Image C: Emblem of Sudan featuring a secretary bird]
[Image D: Close-up of a secretary bird's head]
[Image E: Secretary bird with wings spread out, showing a wingspan of 2m and height of 1m 30 tall]
1 What is the emblem of Sudan?
2 What colour are the faces of the young and adult birds?
3 How tall are some secretary birds?
4 Why can secretary birds run fast?
5 What do secretary birds eat?

Point and say sentences about the pictures.
The secretary bird is the emblem of Sudan.
Sudanese people like these birds.
Pupil's Book 3
4

Unit 1 Lesson 5

Listen, read and repeat. Then say and act.
A. Sukkar lives in a tree next to the River Nile. Two big crocodiles live near him.
B. Every day, Sukkar gives mangoes to the crocodiles: "Hello, Mr Crocodile. These are for your wife."
C. One day, Mrs Crocodile says to Mr Crocodile: "I want meat, not mangoes. Bring me the heart of the monkey."
D. The next day, Mr Crocodile invites Sukkar for lunch: "You always give us mangoes, Sukkar. Come to lunch with us today."
E. When they are swimming to the crocodiles’ home, Sukkar drops the mangoes in the water.
F. "Never mind, Sukkar. Mrs Crocodile wants to eat your heart today, not your mangoes."
Pupil's Book 3
5

Unit 1 Lesson 6

Read and say.
A. "My heart is in my tree. Can we go back and get it for Mrs Crocodile?"
Sukkar is afraid but thinks fast and says:
B. "I don't want lunch. I'm not hungry. Bye, Mr Crocodile."
So the crocodile swims back to Sukkar's tree. Sukkar climbs up and shouts down to the crocodile:
C. "Sukkar isn't coming. He isn't hungry."
Mr Crocodile swims back to the crocodiles' home and says to Mrs Crocodile:
D. "Sukkar isn't hungry but I am! And I am angry!"
Mrs Crocodile says:

Read and complete. Use words from the story.
Sukkar is afraid but he thinks (A) fast. He says he wants to go to his (B) tree because he wants to get his (C) heart. Mr Crocodile (D) swims back to Sukkar's tree and Sukkar (E) climbs up his tree. Then Mr (F) Crocodile swims back to the crocodiles' home. He says that (G) Sukkar isn't coming to lunch because he isn't hungry. Mrs Crocodile is very (H) angry and very angry.

Play the 'Crocodile Game'. Use Can.
Can we swim in the water?
Can we have some mangoes?
Please, Mrs Crocodile. Can we cross the river?
Pupil's Book 3
6

Unit 1 Lesson 7

Read, ask and answer.
Sudan News
It is the first of January, 1956. It's a hot and sunny day in Sudan. It's a big and beautiful day for Sudan.
Isma'il Al Azhari is raising the Sudanese flag. There are thousands of people in the streets, standing and watching. They are smiling and clapping. Children are waving the new Sudanese flag. Everyone is happy. Sudan is now an independent country.
A What's the date?
B What's the weather like?
C Who is raising the Sudanese flag?
D How many people are there?
E What are people doing?
F What are the children waving?
G Why is everyone happy?
What's the date?
It's the first of January, 1956.
What's the weather like?
It's hot and sunny.

Cover the text. Then say sentences about the photograph.
Pupil's Book 3
7

Unit 1 Revision Lesson 8

Listen, read and chant.
Welcome back from holiday,
Welcome back to school today.
It was nice with your family, with your mum and dad.
But you're with your friends, so don't be sad.
There's Science and Maths. Lots of subjects are new.
There's Geography and History and English, too.
Smile! Be happy! Be happy you are here,
to learn lots of new things in school this year.

Write about the bird.
an ostrich
lives: usually in deserts
weighs: 60kg
colour: black and white
wings: sometimes two metres (2m) long

Tell the story of Sukkar and the crocodiles.
Sukkar lives in a tree next to the River Nile.

Add words.
Subjects | Verbs | People
Arabic | cross | adult

Say it. Spell it!
adult
child
History
Geography
timetable
Pupil's Book 3
8

Unit 2 The Earth, the Sun and Space Lesson 1

Listen, read and chant.
The sun is a star and it's very, very old.
It helps plants grow and keeps away cold.
It shines all day, very hot and bright.
It gives us heat and gives us light.
In summer, when the sun is strong,
we mustn't stay in the sun too long.
And when the sun is shining in the sky,
we mustn't look straight at it with our eyes.

Read, match and say.
A You mustn't look straight at the sun.
B You mustn't stay in the sun too long.
C You mustn't swim in the sea here.
D You mustn't drive your car up this road.
E You mustn't play football in this street.
F You mustn't walk on top of that wall.
[Images corresponding to sentences A-F]

Say other sentences with mustn't.
You mustn't...
Pupil's Book 3
9

Unit 2 Lesson 2

Read and say Yes or No.
[Diagram of the solar system showing the sun and planets: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto]
The sun is a star in space. We live on the Earth. The Earth is one of nine planets and is the third planet from the sun. Light takes eight minutes to travel to here from the sun.
The nine planets move around the sun. Mercury and Venus are between the sun and the Earth. The other planets are Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. Pluto is colder than the other planets because it is a long way from the sun. Mercury is hotter than Neptune because it is closer to the sun.
A The sun gives us heat.
B The sun is a planet.
C Venus is the name of our planet.
D Light travels from the sun to the Earth.
E There are nine planets.
F Pluto is very close to the sun.

Ask and answer.
A Which planet is colder, Pluto or Neptune?
B Which planet is hotter, Venus or Mars?
C Which planet is bigger, Pluto or Jupiter?
D Which planet is smaller, the Earth or Saturn?
E Which planet is colder, Mercury or Uranus?
F Which planet is closer to the sun, Mars or Neptune?
Which planet is colder, Pluto or Neptune?
Pluto is colder.
Pupil's Book 3
10

Unit 2 Lesson 3

Listen, read and repeat. Then say and act.
A. I'm a lonely star. I want to live on the Earth. Can you help?
I must ask the adults and wise people in my village.
B. What was their answer, Hisham?
Yes, you can stay. But you must change into a yellow flower.
C. Are you happy?
No. Animals walk on me. I want to change into a rose in the village.
D. Are you happy now?
No. It's noisy in the village. I can't sleep and people pick me off the plant.
E. I want to be a water lily.
F. I'm happy now. I'm a flower and a star. I'm not lonely. I can see my friends in the water and the sky.
Pupil's Book 3
11

Unit 2 Lesson 4

Read and match.
A One night, -> 1 a lonely star asked to live on the Earth.
B After some minutes, -> 6 the star changed into a yellow flower.
C The next night, -> 2 the star changed into a water lily on a lake.
D First, -> 3 Hisham was outside and looked up in the sky.
E After that, -> 4 the star changed into a beautiful rose.
F Finally, -> 5 Hisham answered the star's question.

Read and say the story in the correct order.
One night, Hisham was...

Make correct sentences.
A The star wanted to live on the Earth because it was... (bright/happy/lonely) -> lonely.
B The wise people in the village wanted the star to change into... (a flower/a child/an animal) -> a flower.
C The star wasn't happy as a yellow flower because... (it was lonely/animals walked on it/animals liked it) -> animals walked on it.
D The star wasn't happy as a rose because the village was... (big/hot/noisy) -> noisy.
E The star was happy as a water lily because it could... (see its friends/meet people/drink water) -> see its friends.
Pupil's Book 3
12

Unit 2 Lesson 5

Read and complete. Then listen and check.
[Image of a solar eclipse]
[Image of three coins: the smallest ('the moon'), the middle size ('the Earth'), the biggest ('the sun')]
the moon | an eclipse | the sun
smallest | Earth | right | biggest
moon | between | coins | light
An eclipse is when the moon comes (A) between the Earth and the sun. The moon can block the (B) light of the sun. For a short time, the moon can stop the light from coming to some places on the (C) Earth.
We can use three (D) coins to show an eclipse of the sun. Use the (E) biggest coin for the sun, the smallest coin for the (F) moon and the middle size coin for the Earth. Put the biggest coin (the 'sun') on the (G) right. Put the middle size coin (the 'Earth') on the left. Put the (H) smallest coin (the 'moon') in the middle.

Point and say.
A [Three cats of different sizes]
B [Three stars of different sizes]
C [Three balls of different sizes]
the biggest... | the middle size... | the smallest...
Pupil's Book 3
13

Unit 2 Lesson 6

Ask and answer about the sun and the planets.
[Diagram of the solar system]
the sun, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto
A What's the biggest planet?
B What's the smallest planet?
C What's the closest planet to the sun?
D What's the coldest planet? Why?
E Is Jupiter bigger than Saturn?
F Is the Earth bigger than Mars?
What's the biggest planet?
Jupiter is the biggest planet.

Read and match.
Facts about the Earth
A The Earth goes... -> 5 around the sun.
B The Earth takes about 365 days... -> 4 (a year) to go around the sun.
C There are twenty-four... -> 1 hours in one day.
D Lots of the surface of the Earth... -> 2 is water in seas.
E When you look at the Earth from space... -> 6 you can see lots of blue water.
F The hottest temperature on the Earth... -> 3 is about 50 degrees centigrade.

Cover Activity 2. Then say facts about the Earth.
Pupil's Book 3
14

Unit 2 Lesson 7

Read and choose the correct order. Then say.
A Apollo 11 arrived at the moon after three days. On the 20th of July, two astronauts, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, landed on the moon’s surface. Michael Collins waited in the Apollo 11 spacecraft.
B Neil and Buzz walked on the moon’s surface. They collected rocks and stayed for 21 hours. After they finished their work, they returned to Apollo 11.
C On the 21st of July, the three astronauts in Apollo 11 started on their way back. They landed back on the Earth after a week in space on the 24th July.
D On the 17th of July 1969, a rocket blasted off from the Earth. On top, it carried the Apollo 11 spacecraft. Inside Apollo 11 were three astronauts: Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins.
[Images: a rocket, the astronauts, Apollo 11 spacecraft]
Correct order: 1 CDAB, 2 ABDC, 3 BCAD, 4 DABC -> 4 DABC

Complete and say the sentences.
A A rocket blasted off... -> from the Earth on the 17th of July.
B Three astronauts were...
C On the third day, the Apollo 11 spacecraft...
D Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed...
E The astronauts started on...
F The astronauts landed back on...
Pupil's Book 3
15

Unit 2 Revision Lesson 8

Listen, read and chant.
The sun is a star and it's very, very old.
It helps plants grow and keeps away cold.
It shines all day, very hot and bright.
It gives us heat and gives us light.
In summer, when the sun is strong,
we mustn't stay in the sun too long.
And when the sun is shining in the sky,
we mustn't look straight at it with our eyes.

Write about an eclipse.
This is an...

Tell the story of Hisham and the star.
One night, Hisham was outside. He saw a star in the sky.

Add words.
Space | Past verbs | Adjectives
rocket | answered | wise

Say it. Spell it!
answer
close
Earth
fact
finally
rocket
Pupil's Book 3
16

Unit 3 Clothes Lesson 1

Listen, read and say.
[Girl looking at clothes in a wardrobe]
This is my dress, my coat and my hat.
These are my trousers and this is my cap.
These are my blouses and these are my skirts.
These are my shorts and these are my shirts.
My scarf is green.
These are my T-shirts and these are my jeans.
This is my sweater with a big red rose.
These are my socks. These are all my clothes.
[Boy looking at clothes in a wardrobe]

Say sentences about the clothes.
For girls
A, B, C, D
For boys
E, F, G, H, I
For boys and girls
J, K, L, M, N, O
This is called... These are called...
Pupil's Book 3
17

Unit 3 Lesson 2

Read, point and complete. Then listen, check and say.
mine, yours, his, hers, whose
A (Whose) is this football shirt?
B Is it (yours), Hassan?
C No, it's not my shirt. It's Salah's. And those shorts are (his), too.
D OK, these books are (mine).
E Is that book (yours), Elham?
F No, it isn't (mine). It's Sara's book. That pencil case is (hers), too.

Ask and answer.
A yours? mine / Ali's
B Sara's? hers / mine
C Ali's? his / mine
D yours? mine / Sara's
Is that pen yours?
No, it's not mine. It's Ali's pen.
Pupil's Book 3
18

Unit 3 Lesson 3

Read and say Yes or No.
People in Sudan make clothes from different materials. Many shirts and blouses are made of cotton. Some sweaters and socks are made of wool. Many bags, belts and shoes are made of leather. Some dresses and scarves are made of silk.
We get cotton from cotton plants. We get silk from silk worms. Leather and wool are from animals. Wool comes from sheep and leather comes from cows.
A People in Sudan don't make clothes. (No)
B Blouses are made of cotton. (Yes)
C Bags are all made of cotton. (No)
D We use silk to make scarves. (Yes)
E We get silk from silk plants. (No)
F Wool comes from sheep. (Yes)

Say sentences about materials and clothes.
A bags -> Bags are often made of leather. We get leather from cows.
B shirts
C dresses
D sweaters
Pupil's Book 3
19

Unit 3 Lesson 4

Read, ask and answer. Then read and chant.
[Boy with woman, packing a suitcase]
I've got a trip with my Aunt Jood.
Please tell me what to pack.
It's cold and snowy so you should pack:
gloves and a scarf and a hat.
Gloves and a scarf and a hat?
Yes, gloves and a scarf and a hat.
[Boy in summer clothes]
I've got a trip with my Aunt Jood.
Please tell me what to pack.
It's hot and sunny so you should pack:
sandals and a T-shirt and a hat.
Sandals and a T-shirt and a hat?
Yes, sandals and a T-shirt and a hat.
A Who is Salah's trips with?
B What is the weather like for the first trip?
C What clothes should he pack for the first trip?
D Why does Salah need sandals for the second trip?

Point and say sentences.
In hot and sunny weather
In cold and snowy weather
In wet and windy weather
In hot and sunny weather, you should wear...
[Images of various clothing items]
Pupil's Book 3
20

Unit 3 Lesson 5

Listen and read. Then order the sentences.
Picking cotton in Sudan
Hello, I'm Majda.
A We worked until it was dark.
B When we finished, we emptied the cotton.
C I picked cotton and put it into a big sack.
D At twelve o'clock, we stopped and rested.
E This story happened during my school holiday.
F Each day, I picked lots of cotton.
G We helped my dad to pick cotton.
H We walked to the cotton fields early in the morning.

Change the sentences to the past tense. Say them.
A I help my mother to clean the house. -> Last week, I helped my mother to clean the house.
B We walk to school in the morning. -> On Sunday,...
C My dad finishes work at three o'clock. -> Yesterday,...
D I always work from eight to four. -> Last year,...
E We live in a big house in Baouga. -> Five years ago,...
Pupil's Book 3
21

Unit 3 Lesson 6

Read, say and repeat.
A A hat-seller walked from village to village to sell hats. When he was tired, he rested under a tree. Later, he opened his eyes and looked in his sack: no hats!
B Then the hat-seller looked up in the tree and saw six monkeys, each with a hat on! He shouted and pointed at his sack. The monkeys shouted and pointed at the sack.
C The hat-seller was very angry. He jumped up and down and threw his hat on the ground. The monkeys jumped up and down and threw their hats on the ground.
D The hat-seller was very happy now. He picked up the hats and put them into the sack and said: "Thank you, monkeys. Goodbye." He waved. The monkeys waved back!

Say and act. Use the words in the box.
walked | rested | opened | looked in | looked up | shouted | pointed | jumped | threw | picked up | put | waved | was angry | was happy
A hat-seller walked from...
Pupil's Book 3
22

Unit 3 Lesson 7

Read, ask and answer.
A Hello, my name is Musa and I'm a policeman. I wear a blue uniform so people can see me. I like my job a lot.
B Hello, I'm Ibrahim. I'm a fireman. I wear a uniform, a helmet, heavy clothes, gloves and boots. These protect me from fire and heat.
C Hello, I'm Huda. I'm a doctor and I work in a hospital. I usually wear a white coat. It must be very clean.
D Hi, I'm Osman. I'm a mechanic. I work with cars. I wear overalls to protect my clothes.
1 Why does Musa wear a uniform?
2 What is Ibrahim's job?
3 Where does Huda work?
4 What is Osman's job?

Match the clothes and the jobs.
[Images of: boots, white coat, helmet and gloves, police uniform, overalls]

Say sentences about the people and their jobs.
Musa is a policeman. He wears a...
Pupil's Book 3
23

Unit 3 Revision Lesson 8

Listen, read and say.
This is my dress, my coat and my hat.
These are my trousers and this is my cap.
These are my blouses and these are my skirts.
These are my black shoes. My scarf is green.
These are my T-shirts and these are my jeans.
This is my sweater with a big red rose.
These are my socks. These are all my clothes.

Write about clothes for different seasons.
We wear gloves in winter. Gloves are sometimes made of...

Tell the story of the hat-seller and the monkeys.
A hat-seller walked from village to village to sell hats. He was tired and...

Add words.
Clothes | Past verbs | Materials
coat | answered | cotton

Say it. Spell it!
belt
empty
job
pack
scarf
trip
Pupil's Book 3
24

[PUPIL'S BOOK ENDS, ACTIVITY BOOK STARTS]
Sudan
Modern
Integrated
Learning of
English
SMILE Series: Book 3
Activity Book
Grade 5: Basic Level

Unit 1 Back to School Lesson 1
A. Find and circle six school subjects.
[Word search puzzle]
ISLAMIC STUDIES, ENGLISH, HISTORY, SCIENCE, ARABIC, MATHS
B. Complete the sentences. Use the words in the box.
do, have, When, History, on, is, past, study, Thursday
(1) When (2) is Arabic today? It's at a half (3) past nine.
What days (4) do we got (5) History? It's on Monday and (6) Tuesday.
What (7) have you study first (8) on Sunday? I (9) study Arabic.
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Osama has got his new timetable. He's got English on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday. His favourite subject is Maths. He studies Maths on Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday. His first Maths class is at eight o'clock on Sunday.

When is Maths on Sunday?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
1

Unit 1 Lesson 2
A. Write sentences about the pictures.

Abdullah / Port Sudan / nice -> Abdullah was in Port Sudan for his holiday. It was nice.

Lena / uncle's farm / hot -> Lena was at her uncle's farm. It was hot.

Ali and Amr / Khartoum / busy -> Ali and Amr were in Khartoum. It was busy.
B. Write answers for the questions.

Where was your holiday?

Who were you with during your holiday?

What was your holiday like?
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Mr Ashraf's holiday was in London. He was there with his wife, his children and his brother. Mr Ashraf's holiday was nice but the weather in London was very cold when he was there.

What was Mr Ashraf's holiday like?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
2

Unit 1 Lesson 3
A. Listen, match and write the letters.
[Images of: farmers with cattle, lion, forest, desert, mountains, fish]
B. Write sentences about the pictures.

The farmers are looking after their animals.

C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Sudan is a big country with many different things to see: deserts, mountains, rivers, forests, towns and villages. Different animals live in Sudan: lions, crocodiles, camels, elephants and many others. You can see lots of animals in Dinder Park.

What things can you see in Sudan?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
3

Unit 1 Lesson 4
A. Complete the sentences. Use the words in the box.
are, a, the, an, of
This is (1) an elephant. Elephants (2) are big animals.
Sudan is (3) a big country. Lots (4) of animals live there.
I can see (5) a snake. (6) The snake is green and yellow and is long.
It's (7) a very nice day today. (8) The sun is shining.
Can I have (9) an orange juice to drink and (10) an apple to eat, please?
B. Write sentences about the bird.
A stork -> This large bird is a stork.
Lives: in a big nest
Food: small mammals
Colour: white or white and black
Wings: sometimes 3 metres long
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Secretary birds are beautiful birds. They live in Sudan and in countries near Sudan. They are large birds and are sometimes 1m 30 tall. They can run fast across the ground and eat snakes, rats and other small animals. The secretary bird is the emblem of Sudan and Sudanese people like this bird.

Where do secretary birds live?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
4

Unit 1 Lesson 5
A. Change the sentences into questions.

Sukkar lives near the River Nile. -> Does Sukkar live near the River Nile?

Two crocodiles live near Sukkar. -> Do two crocodiles live near Sukkar?

Sukkar eats fruit every day.

Sukkar gives the crocodiles mangoes.

The crocodiles like eating meat.

The crocodiles invite Sukkar to lunch.

Mr Crocodile takes Sukkar with him.

Mrs Crocodile wants to eat his heart.
B. Draw a picture from the story. Then write two sentences about it.
Sukkar the monkey
This is a picture of Sukkar the monkey. He lives in a tree next to the River Nile.
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Sukkar is a monkey. He lives in a tree next to the River Nile. Every day he gives some mangoes to Mrs Crocodile. One day Mrs Crocodile is very hungry. She says to Mr Crocodile: "I want meat to eat. I don't want mangoes."

Where does Sukkar live?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
5

Unit 1 Lesson 6
A. Write sentences about the pictures.

Can we cross the river, please?

Can you carry?

Can I see?

Can we have?
B. Join the sentences with because or so.

I'm hot. I want a drink. -> I want a drink because I'm hot.

Sukkar is afraid. He thinks fast.

Ali can't drive. He catches a bus.

Mrs. Crocodile is hungry. She is angry.
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Nile Crocodiles are long, big and dangerous. They live in the River Nile and other rivers in Sudan and countries near it. They walk, run and swim and have long mouths with sharp teeth. Nile crocodiles eat fish, reptiles and mammals.

What are Nile crocodiles like?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
6

Unit 1 Lesson 7
A. Complete the words about the pictures.
man / children
B. Complete the sentences about the picture. Use the words in the box.
bus, clapping, cup, happy, is, thousands, picture, street, team, waving
This is a (1) picture of a football (2) team. The football players are standing on a (3) bus. There are (4) thousands of people in the (5) street. Everyone is (6) happy. Everyone (7) is smiling. The players have got a big (8) cup. People are (9) waving flags. They are cheering and (10) clapping.
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
In 1959, the Sudanese flag was different to the Sudanese flag now. There were three colours in the old flag: blue, green and yellow. Yellow was for the desert. Blue was for the River Nile. Green was for plants and farms.

How many colours were in the old Sudanese flag?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
7

Unit 1 Revision Lesson 8
A. Read, number and say.

a child 2. cross 3. a palm tree 4. a rat 5. a timetable 6. wave
[Images corresponding to the words]
B. Write the words in the correct order.

do we / first / What / on Monday? / study -> What do we study first on Monday?

visit / to the / market / was / fun / Sara's

eating / Do / mangoes? / like / crocodiles

lunch / because / I'm / I'd like / hungry / some

to school, please? / with me / Can you / walk
C. Read to your partner. Then write and answer.
Sudan has got a new flag now. It is not the same as the old Sudanese flag from 1956. There are four colours in the flag. They are black, green, red and white. The colours of the old flag were blue, green and yellow.

How many colours are there in the new Sudanese flag?

Write your question here.

Answer your partner's question here.
Activity Book 3
8

[LISTENING SCRIPTS & BOOK MAP OMITTED FOR BREVITY AS PER STANDARD TXT CONVERSION LIMITATIONS - THE CORE PUPIL'S BOOK AND ACTIVITY BOOK HAVE BEEN CONVERTED.]