SMILE SERIES
PUPIL'S BOOK
GRADE 7
BASIC LEVEL
BOOK 5

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
NATIONAL CENTRE FOR CURRICULA AND EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (NCCER)
SUDAN MODERN INTEGRATED LEARNING OF ENGLISH

The Republic of the Sudan
Federal Ministry of Education
The National Centre for Curricula and Educational Research (NCCER)

Sudan Modern Integrated Learning of English
SMILE Series
SMILE Book 7
Pupil's Book
Grade 1: Intermediate Level
2nd Edition
2021

Acknowledgements

The Director General of the National Centre for Curricula and Educational Research (NCCER) would like to extend thanks to the writing teams, designers and editors of the SMILE Series, 1st Edition. The Director General would also like to extend thanks to the British Council for providing their support and technical expertise.

UNIT 1

Lesson 1: You and Me

1. Look at the pictures. What do you think is happening?

2. Read the two emails and answer the questions.
A) Who is Tim writing to?
B) Who is Amien?

New message
To: amien@SMILE.sd
Subject: Hello!
Dear Amien,
Hi, my name is Tim and I'm 12 years old. I come from Wellington in New Zealand. I live with my mum and dad, and my sister Claire. We are coming to Sudan next week for eight months. My dad works for a big company and they want to open a new office in Khartoum.
My favourite hobbies are computer games, playing football and swimming. What do you like doing?
Tim

New message
To: tim@SMILE.nz
Subject: Hi!
Hi Tim,
My name is Amien and I'm from Sudan. I'm very excited that you are coming to Sudan. It's a beautiful country with lots to see and do.
My hobbies are playing football, reading and taking photographs. I'm very interested in animals.
See you soon,
Amien

3. Read the emails again. Answer the questions.
A) Where is Tim going?
B) Who is he going with?
C) How long is he staying?
D) Why is Amien excited?
E) What does Amien say about Sudan?
F) What hobby do Tim and Amien both like?

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What's your name?"
"My name..."

Lesson 2: My Family

1. Look at the picture. What can you see?

2. Listen. Point to the people in the picture.

3. Listen again. Are the sentences true or false?
A) Tim has two brothers.
B) Matthew is Tim's cousin.
C) Matthew is seven.
D) Tim's grandfather is called Omer.
E) Nicola is Wayne's daughter.
F) George and Rose have three grandchildren.
G) John and Nicola have one son.

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What's your father's name?"
"His name's..."

Lesson 3: Free Time

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
Children love having fun. It's the same in every country of the world. Today they like playing computer games or watching TV inside the house. They also love playing outside with their friends.
Some things are fun to do with one or two friends, such as swimming or flying a kite. Team games, such as basketball, need lots of people. But it is also nice to play computer games or watch TV with your friends.
It is also fun to help your mum or dad with things such as cooking or working on the farm. Usually the best hobbies are ones you can do without lots of tools, like football - all you need is a ball and some friends.

3. Read the sentences. What is the hobby?
A) You play this with two teams and a ball.
B) You need a computer to play these games.
C) It's best to do this on a windy day.
D) When you do this, you can eat what you make.
E) You need lots of water for this.

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What do you like doing in your free time?"
"I like cooking with my mum."

Lesson 4: Staying Healthy

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
5 Ways of Staying Healthy

Eat lots of healthy food like fresh fruit and vegetables.

Don't eat too much junk food such as crisps.

Don't drink too many fizzy drinks.

Get lots of exercise every day.

Get lots of fresh air.

3. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"Do you usually walk to school?"
"Yes, I usually walk to school with my friends."

Lesson 5: Time

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text.
People started to use clocks about four thousand years ago. These clocks were called sundials because they needed the sun for telling the time. The first sundials were made of tall stones. The Egyptians were very interested in time. They started to make sundials about three thousand five hundred years ago. They wanted to know how long the days and nights were during the year. Two other old clocks are the water clock and the hourglass. We still use the hourglass today.

3. Read the text again. Answer the questions.
A) When were the first sundials used?
B) Why were they called sundials?
C) What were the first ones made of?
D) Which old clock is still used today?

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice with clocks showing different times in London, New York, Shanghai, Dubai)
"What's the time in London?"
"It's..."

Lesson 6: A Helping Hand

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
Helping people is a very important part of Islam. There is a famous saying: Helping people starts at home. What does this mean? It means that helping our parents at home is very important. We should think about the people close to us and start by helping them.
There are lots of ways we can help other people, such as giving money to poor people. Young people can do small jobs for other people like old people. We can also help our neighbours on the farm or help our teacher in school. All of these things are important and useful. We don't need to do big things to help, small things are important too.

3. Read the text again. Are these sentences true or false?
A) Helping people never starts at home.
B) We should help our parents at home.
C) It is important to help people we know.
D) Giving money is the only way to help people.
E) Helping our neighbours is a bad thing to do.
F) We should only do big things to help people.

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"How often do you help at home?"
"I always help my mother with the cooking."

Lesson 7: The Scorpion

1. Look at the pictures. What happens next?
(Comic strip showing a scorpion asking a frog for help to cross a river)
Scorpion: "Can you help me cross the river?"
Frog: "No, sorry."
Scorpion: "I won't sting you because I can't swim."

2. Listen to the story. Were you correct?

3. Listen again. Answer the questions.
A) What does the scorpion want to do?
B) Why doesn't the frog want to help?
C) Why does the scorpion say 'don't worry'?
D) Did the scorpion sting the frog?

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"Can you help me cross the river?"
"Yes, I will..."

Lesson 8: New Friends

1. Look at the picture. Who are the girls?

2. Read the messages. What things are the same about Claire and Fadia?
(Text message conversation)
Claire: My name's Claire and I'm 11 years old. I live in New Zealand with my parents and my brother, Tim. What about you?
Fadia: I'm Fadia and I'm 11 too. I live in Khartoum with my brothers and sisters, my mother and father and my grandparents. What are your favourite hobbies?
Claire: I like playing computer games and playing outside with my friends. What about you?
Fadia: I like computer games too. Sometimes I help my aunt. I like cooking with her.
Claire: I like food. I eat too much junk food but I go swimming nearly every day. Do you get much exercise?
Fadia: Yes, I always walk to school with my brother Amien and it's a long way. I don't swim, but I can run fast.

3. Read the messages again and answer the questions.
A) Who lives with her grandparents?
B) Who likes fizzy drinks and crisps?
C) Who doesn't swim?
D) Who has a big family?
E) Who walks a long way to school?

UNIT 2

Lesson 1: Types of Houses

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read about the houses in the pictures.
A) My house is made of the hair of animals like camels and goats. We can move from place to place. There is only one room.
B) I live in a modern house in Khartoum. It's made of bricks. There are two floors and the bedrooms are on the second floor. It is very comfortable.
C) I live in the west of Sudan in a small house made of wood and mud. The house is round. It is very warm in the winter and cool in summer.
D) I live in an old house in Port Sudan. It is made of blocks and is painted white. It has large rooms and a small garden.

Which house...

is made of bricks?

is made of blocks?

is made of mud?

is made of animal hair?

3. Read the texts again. Ask and answer the questions.
Whose house...
A) ...has more than two floors?
B) ...doesn't get too hot or too cold?
C) ...has a garden?
D) ...doesn't have a room for cooking?

4. Ask and answer questions about your house.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What type of house do you live in?"
"I live in an old house..."

Lesson 2: A Good Place to Live

1. Look at the words. Say the opposite.
comfortable - uncomfortable
cool - warm
easy - difficult
expensive - cheap
modern - old

2. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

3. Listen to Tim and Amien. Which house does Amien live in?

4. Listen again. Are the sentences true or false?
A) Amien's bedroom is painted blue.
B) It's made of mud.
C) It was built ten years ago.
D) Amien's sister lives in the house.

5. Talk about your house.
A) What's it made of?
B) What colour is it?
C) When was it built?
D) Who lives there?

Lesson 3: Rooms and Furniture

1. Match the words with the pictures.
bath, bed, cooker, rug, fridge, mirror, sofa, toilet, wardrobe

2. Look at the pictures. In which room do you find each piece of furniture?
kitchen, living room, bedroom, bathroom

3. Read the two texts. Point to the furniture in the pictures.
A) I use the room with my brother. There are two beds in the room. That's his bed over there. We have one wardrobe for our clothes. There is also a desk under the window. We sit there and do our homework. I have a lamp next to my bed so that I can read at night in the dark.
B) This is my mother's favourite room in the house. There is a table in the middle where we eat our meals together. There is a cooker and a fridge. I help my mother wash the dishes in a bowl.

Lesson 4: Where is it?

1. Look at the picture. What can you see?
(Picture with prepositions: behind, on, in front of, next to, under)

2. Ask and answer questions about where things are in the room. Use the words in the box.
bed, book, clothes, window, chair, ball, table, shoes, picture, rug, lamp, wardrobe

3. Ask and answer the questions. Use question tags.
A) The chair's next to the bed, isn't it?
B) The rug's on the floor, isn't it?
C) The clothes are in the wardrobe, aren't they?
D) The picture's next to the window, isn't it?
E) The book's on the chair, isn't it?
F) The table's between the chair and the bed, isn't it?
G) The lamp's behind the chair, isn't it?
H) The ball's under the bed, isn't it?

4. Talk about where things are in your room.

Lesson 5: Technology in Our Houses

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?
(Pictures of: fridge, iron, microwave, TV, battery, blender, phone, remote)

2. Listen to Rashid and Rayan. Point to the pictures.

3. Listen again. Ask and answer the questions.
(Questions about a woman using a blender)
A) What is this machine called?
B) What is it made of?
C) What is the jug for?
D) What is the machine used for?
E) What does the women use it for every day?

Lesson 6: Finding a Place

1. Look at the map. What can you see?
(A map with North, South, East, and West streets)

2. Read the beginning of the conversation. Where is the man?
Man: Excuse me. Can you tell me how to get to the hotel?
Tim: Of course. We are here at the bus station.
Man: Yes, we are.
Tim: You can see the supermarket on the opposite side of the road.
Man: Yes, I can see it.
Tim: Turn left and go straight. You will see the hospital on the left. Walk past the hospital and turn left again onto East Street.
Man: Ok, I will turn left onto East Street.
Tim: On the right you will see a bank...
Man: Is the bank opposite the hospital?
Tim: Yes, that's correct. Turn right there and the hotel is on the right next to the bank.
Man: Thank you.

3. Read the conversation again. Follow the directions on the map.

4. Act out the conversation.
(Dialogue for practice asking for directions to the park, mosque, hospital, or city hall)

Lesson 7: Safety at Home

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the poster. Listen and point to the pictures.
Stay safe at home
Every year lots of children have accidents at home. Sometimes they have to go to hospital. Here are some rules to help you stay safe at home.

Keep knives away from children.

Don't leave medicines out. Put them away.

People can fall over toys on the floor. Tidy them away.

Don't climb on chairs, you can fall and hurt yourself.

Keep gas cylinders safe and locked away.

Don't leave the iron on when it is not being used.

3. Listen to Aisha. What happened to her?

4. Talk about safety at home.

Lesson 8: My Family House

1. Look at the pictures. Answer the questions.

What type of house does each picture show?

Can you remember what the houses are made of?

What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of each house?

2. Read the description. Which house is it?
This is my house. It's made of camel hair. It's nice and warm in the winter. We have lots of animals and we move from place to place. It's a good house for us as it is easy to move. One disadvantage is that we only have one room. My mother cooks outside over a big fire. When it rains this is difficult. My uncle lives in the city. He lives in a modern house. He says it is very nice, but I like my house.

3. Read the description again. Ask and answer the questions.
A) What's it made of?
B) What are two advantages?
C) Are there any disadvantages?
D) Where does his mother cook?
E) Does his uncle live in the same type of house?
F) Does the boy like where he lives?

4. Talk about different rooms and furniture in your house.

UNIT 3

Lesson 1: At School

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the sentences. What is the subject?
(Subjects: Geography, History, Islamic Studies, Maths, Physical Education (P.E.), Science)
A) We learn about numbers and shapes.
B) We learn about the past. We study old places and Sudan in the past.
C) We learn about the weather. We study places around the world.
D) We learn about inventions. We sometimes do experiments.
E) We learn to play different sports. This is a good subject to help us stay healthy.
F) We learn about Islam and we read the Holy Quran.

3. Look at the school timetable. Answer the questions.
(A school timetable from Sunday to Thursday)
A) How many lessons of Islamic Studies are there each week?
B) What's the first lesson on Sunday?
C) What's the last lesson on Wednesday?
D) What subject is after History on Monday?

4. Talk about your school timetable.

Lesson 2: My School

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to Tim. Point to the pictures.

3. Ask and answer the questions.
A) What time do you usually start school?
B) What time do you usually finish school?
C) Do you have both boys and girls in your class?
D) What subjects do you have at school?
E) What's your favourite subject at school?

Lesson 3: School Rules

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the school rules. Point to the pictures.
School Rules

Arrive on time

Wear the correct uniform

Don't run

Don't go outside the school grounds during breakfast

Do your homework

Look after your things

No shouting in the classroom

3. Say some school rules. Use must and mustn't.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"In our school we must arrive on time."
"We mustn't run in the classroom."

Lesson 4: The Khalwa

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. What do boys do at the Khalwa?
Khalwas are schools in Sudan where boys go to study and learn the Holy Quran. The pupils usually start school before Fajr prayer and continue after it. They have a break in the middle of the day when they rest and have a meal.
In Khalwas you must study hard and learn all the words in the Holy Quran. You use a writing board to copy the words and then study. There are one hundred and fourteen Surahs and you must learn all of them. In some Khalwas pupils clean their rooms and cook their own meals after school. The pupils are usually very active.

3. Read the text again. Are the sentences true or false?
A) Only boys study in the Khalwa.
B) The pupils study all day.
C) They study the Holy Quran.
D) There are a hundred Surah.
E) They don't learn all the Surah.
F) In some Khalwas the boys cook their own food.
G) The pupils are usually very tired.

4. Ask and answer questions about your school day.

Lesson 5: My Favourite Subject

1. Look at the cartoon. What are the children talking about?

2. Read the sentences. What is the subject?
(Subjects: Science, Arabic, Computer Studies, English)
A) In this subject we learn about animals and plants.
B) In this subject we learn another language.
C) In this subject we read books and poetry.
D) In this subject we learn how to use the Internet and how to write emails.

3. Read Amien's letter. What does he say about school?
Hi! I'm Amien. I like studying at school. I don't like all the subjects, but I know they are important. My favourite subject is P. E. because it's fun and active. I don't like studying Maths because I find it very difficult, but I know it is useful. What about you? What do you like studying?

4. Interview Amien.

Lesson 6: Different Schools

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the two texts. Point to the pictures.
Home schooling
In Australia some children live a long way from any schools, so they study at home. They learn using special programmes on the radio or through the Internet.
Camel schools
In 1990 the first mobile schools started in Darfur and Kordofan. They are sometimes in tents or under trees. They get their name because the teachers often travel by camel.

3. Listen to Aisha. Which school does she go to?

4. Quiz time!
A) Where does Tim come from?
B) What must some children wear when they go to school?
C) Which subject looks at the past?
D) What do pupils study at Khalwa schools?

Lesson 7: A Tidy School

1. Look at this picture. What problems can you see?
(A picture of a messy, broken classroom)

2. Read the list. What is it about?
To Do

Clean the blackboard.

Sweep the floor.

Replace the broken chair.

Paint the walls.

Empty the rubbish bin.

Fix the broken window.

Put the noticeboard back on the wall.

3. Read the conversation. What do they need to do?
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What do we need to do?"
"I've fixed the window. Now I need to replace the broken chair."

4. Act out the conversation. Add some of your own ideas.

Lesson 8: Revision: School Time

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
In towns and cities in Sudan children go to school. They sit in classrooms and learn different subjects. They can study subjects like Maths and English and do experiments in Science.
Not every school is in a building. In some villages, children have lessons in a tent or under a tree. Some children go to a school where they can sleep, eat and study.

3. Read the text again. What are the differences between the schools?

UNIT 4

Lesson 1: How Much?

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to the shop assistant and the woman. What are they talking about?

3. Read the conversation. How much does the woman agree to pay?
(Conversation in a shop)
"What do you think of the digital radio?"
"It's nice. How much is it?"
"It's 200 pounds."
"That's too much."
"This one is 150 pounds."
"OK."

4. Act out a conversation in a shop.

Lesson 2: Before Mobile Phones

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?
(A rotary phone and a modern smartphone)

2. Read the text: What does the writer say about text messages?
These days many people have their own mobile phones. However, your parents probably remember that until 1997 there were no mobile phones. In the past, people could only make a phone call from their home or a telephone in the street. They also couldn't send text messages.
Life before mobile phones probably sounds bad to young people, but it wasn't all bad. In the past, people went out and had time alone without a phone. People sometimes forget that it is nice to be alone.

3. Read the text again. Are the sentences true of false?
A) Some people can remember when there were no mobile phones.
B) When our parents were children, they couldn't make phone calls.
C) People could go out without a phone.
D) Life before mobile phones was bad.
E) Life with mobile phones is bad.

4. Talk about what you could and couldn't do when you were younger.

Lesson 3: Technology Everywhere

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?
(Pictures of: mobile phone, webcam, tablet, headphones, camera)

2. Read the sentences. Point to the pictures.
A) My father has one of these in our car. It is great because we never get lost anymore!
B) My brother uses these to listen to music on his computer. No wires!
C) This is mine. I use it to take photos of my friends.
D) I like yours, but I don't have one yet. My parents say I'm too young, but they both have them!
E) My aunt lives in the USA. When we talk on the computer we can see her because she has one of these.

3. Read the Advertisement. Answer the questions.
This is the latest Mobile Phone.
Phone and text your friends. Comes in three colours.
Comes with a good camera.
A) What can you do with the Mobile phone?
B) How much is it?
C) How many colours are there?
D) What does it come with?

4. Make an advert for a gadget. Use the words in the box.
cheap, latest, costs just, comes with

Lesson 4: e-Learning

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text and answer the question.
All Sudanese children need an education. To get an education children need to go to school. But, it is not easy for all children. Some live in small villages with no school and others travel around with their parents.
There are some ways for children to get an education even if they don't live near to a school. In some places there are 'camel' schools that go to the villages. Another answer is e-learning. El Gaderif now has more than 600 children studying online. The children study the same subjects they can learn at school on the computers. People from the villages help with the project, and the parents and children are very happy with it.
Is the text about: A) Computers? B) Education? C) Computers and education?

3. Read the text again. Say the sentences in the correct order.
A) Lots of children don't go to school.
B) Children like learning with computers.
C) Some children now learn with computers.
D) It is not easy for some children.
E) Some children learn in camel schools.
F) All Sudanese children should have an education.

4. Talk about where you would like to study.

Lesson 5: How Does It Work?

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the instructions. Point to the pictures.
How to make a pin hole camera
To make your camera you will need:

a cardboard box with a lid

a pin

scissors

black paper

tracing paper

sticky tape
A. Check that your box is closed.
B. Make a round hole at both ends using the scissors.
C. Cover one hole with the black paper and the other hole with the tracing paper.
D. Use the sticky tape to stick the paper to the ends of the box.
E. Use the pin to make a small hole in the middle of the end covered by the black paper.
F. Point the end with the black paper at something bright, for example a window.
G. You should see an image of the window on the tracing paper at the other end.

3. Talk about how to make a pinhole camera.

Lesson 6: The Internet

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to Claire and Fadia talking. What does Fadia not understand?

3. Read the list. What are some good and bad ways to use the Internet?
send emails, play games, do homework, watch movies, learn about new things, talk with friends, download music, talk to family in other countries

4. Answer the questions.
A) What should you use the Internet for?
B) What shouldn't you use the Internet for?

Lesson 7: A Request

1. Look at the picture. What do you think the email is about?

2. Read the email. Why does Nadia need a new camera?
New message
To: asma@SMILE.sd
Subject: New camera
Dear Asma,
How are you, my sister? I hope you are well and you are enjoying your holiday in Malaysia. I know you are planning to buy presents for everyone before you come home. Could I ask you a favour? You know that my daughter Nadia is really interested in photography at the moment. Could you please bring her back a digital camera from Malaysia? I know they are expensive, so of course I will pay for it. I told Nadia last week that we can go and take photos together. There are lots of interesting things near here. I can use the old camera.
We will be at the airport waiting for you next week. We are excited about seeing you again! You can tell us all about your holiday.
See you soon.
Love,
Samiya

3. Ask and answer polite questions.
A) ... buy me a new camera...
B) ... get me a cup of tea...
C) ... help me with my homework...
D) ... show me how to get there...
E) ... tell me the answer...

Lesson 8: Revision: Gadget Time

1. Look at the pictures. Can you remember the gadgets?

2. Read the email. What is it about?
New message
To: Mustafa@SMILE.sd
Subject: Hobbies and interests
... So that's lots of things about me. Now I have questions for you. 1) What are you interested in? 2) Do you have a mobile phone? I like sending text messages. My brother has a mobile phone and I use his. 3) Do you have a camera? Maybe you can send me some photos. 4) Or do you have a computer? Maybe you have a friend or person in your family with one? 6) Could we have a chat some time? All you need is a pair of headphones and a webcam - and a computer of course! Anyway, please email me, or send me a text message.
Ben

3. Read the email again. Match the questions and the answers
A) No, but my dad has one. I can take photos with his.
B) Yes that would be great. I will ask my uncle.
C) I love reading. I have lots of books.
D) No, I don't but my uncle lives near me and he has one.
E) My sister says I can have hers. Then I can send text messages to people.

UNIT 5

Lesson 1: Everyone is Good at Something

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
Mohammed Atta was born in Sudan in June 1984. It wasn't easy for his family because Mohammed was born blind, but his parents were strong. Mohammed was very clever. He learnt Arabic by listening to the radio. He couldn't see but he liked to fix radios and televisions. He was a student at the Al Nour Institute for the Blind. His parents were happy because he had a good education. He was interested in electronics and when he grew up he got a good job in radio. His parents and teachers weren't surprised when he set up the Kawther Radio Station.

3. Read the text again. Match the questions and the answers.
(Answers: Yes, he was. No, he wasn't. Yes, they were. No, they weren't.)
A) Was Mohammed Atta born in Sudan?
B) Was he born in 1986?
C) Were his family unhappy?
D) Was Mohammed interested in electronics?
E) Were his parents happy about his education?
F) Were his teachers surprised when he started a radio station?

4. Your turn.

Lesson 2: A Heroine

1. Look at the photos. What do you know about this person?

2. Listen. Answer the questions.
A) Where is Malala Yousafzai from?
B) What happened when she was fifteen?
C) Where was she?
D) Why did it happen?
E) What did she win?

3. Read about Malala Yousafzai. Why did she start collecting money?
1997: born in Pakistan
2012: men attacked her on the school bus
2013: started collecting money to help girls get an education
2014: won the Nobel Peace Prize

4. Your turn.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What happened in 2014?"
"She won the Nobel Peace Prize."

Lesson 3: Living with Gorillas

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. What is it about?
Dian Fossey was born in the USA in 1932. When she was young she loved animals. She started riding horses when she was six years old. In 1963, she travelled to Africa. She saw flamingos in Tanzania and travelled to Uganda, where she saw her first mountain gorillas.
She returned to the USA, but she didn't stay there. In 1966, she went back to Africa and in 1967 she set up a centre in Rwanda to help the gorillas. She spent 19 years studying gorillas and she stopped people hunting them. Then in 1985, some angry hunters shot and killed her.
Three years later, a movie was made about her amazing life.

3. Read the text again. Answer the questions.
A) What did Dian Fossey do when she was six?
B) When did she go to Africa?
C) What did she see in Tanzania?
D) Where did she see her first mountain gorillas?
E) How long did she spend studying mountain gorillas?
F) What happened in 1985?

4. Ask and answer questions about Dian Fossey.

Lesson 4: The Best I Can Be

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?
(Pictures of Mustafa, Ibrahim, Amna)

2. Read the texts. Point to the pictures.
A) When I was very young I was very ill. After that my legs were not strong and now I can't walk. I still go to school - in a wheelchair, but it's difficult to get around.
B) When I was born my parents knew there was something wrong. The doctors told them that I couldn't see - I was blind. I couldn't read. I went to a special school and learnt to read using Braille.
C) I was thirteen when a car hit me on the way home from school. I was in hospital for six months with head injuries. I try to talk to people, but I can't speak very well. People think I'm stupid, but I'm not.

3. Ask and answer questions about the people in the pictures.
(Dialogue bubbles for practice)
"What is difficult for Amna?"
"Travelling is difficult for her."

Lesson 5: Role Models

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to the children. Point to the pictures.

3. Listen again. Answer the questions.
A) Whose role model is... 1) their teacher? 2) their mother? 3) their grandfather?
B) Who says their role model is... 1) amazing? 2) always there for them? 3) always smiling and happy?
(Children's names: Fatma, Mudafhir, Huma)

4. Ask and answer questions about your role model.

Lesson 6: A Special Award

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the texts. Point to the pictures.

Huda is 12 years old. She helps her neighbour who is 87. Huda does the shopping and cooks her meals. She also helps to clean the house.

Hassan is 15 years old. After school, he helps disabled children. He helps the children to do sports and other activities. Hassan started helping two years ago.

Rihab is 14 years old. Every weekend, she collects money from the poor people in her community. She asks people for their help and gives the money she gets from them to the local mosque.

3. Talk about who should be the 'Young Person of the Year'.

Lesson 7: An Amazing Man

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read Tim's diary. What is the name of the amazing man?
Today, I read about an amazing man called Dr Philip Emeagwali. He was born in Nigeria in 1954 into a poor family. Philip was very clever and loved Maths, but he left school when he was 14. He needed to get a job and get some money, but his father told him to study in the evenings. Every night, he went to the library and read books about Maths, Science and English.
When he was 17, he won a scholarship to a university in USA. Dr Emeagwali became a computer scientist and invented very fast computers. He has won more than 100 prizes for his work.

3. Read the diary again. Answer the questions.
A) Where is Dr Emeagwali from?
B) Why did he leave school at 14?
C) Why did he go to the library?
D) Why did he go to USA?
E) What did he invent?

4. Ask and answer questions about Dr Phillip Emeagwali.

Lesson 8: Special People

1. Look at the pictures. What can you remember about these people?
(Pictures of Dr Philip Emeagwali, Malala Yousafzai, Mohammed Atta, Dian Fossey)

2. Read the sentences. Point to the pictures.
A) This person was born in Pakistan.
B) This person started riding horses when she was young.
C) This person is blind.
D) This person made a very fast computer.
E) This person started his own radio station.
F) This person spent 19 years in Africa working with mountain gorillas.
G) This person says girls should get an education.
H) This person was interested in electronics when he was a young boy.

3. Ask and answer questions about the special people in this unit.

UNIT 6

Lesson 1: The Arts

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to the children. Match the children with the pictures.
(Names: Nafisa, Habib, Rana, Jalal)

3. Read the text. Answer the questions.
There are many different types of art. Some people play music, some people write poetry or tell stories, some people take photos and some people paint pictures. Sometimes you need tools. An artist needs tools like paint brushes and paint. But for poetry, you only need a pen and to be very good with words. What arts do you like? What do you want to do? Everyone can do an art.
A) How many arts does the writer talk about?
B) What are they?

4. Ask and answer questions about the Arts.

Lesson 2: Sudanese Arts

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the texts. Point to the pictures.
Each part of Sudan does things in different ways, like living in different houses and wearing different clothes. It's the same for art.

Kordofan is famous for pots made of clay. People keep milk in them. Kordofan is also famous for a dance called Mardoom. In this dance, people stamp the ground with their feet.

In east Sudan people use shells to make beautiful bowls. They also have their own dance called Sagriaa. The dancers use a sword. It looks very dangerous.

In the north of the country, people play a musical instrument made of wood with two or three strings. It's called a rabab and it sounds very beautiful.

3. Talk about the Arts in the different parts of Sudan.

Lesson 3: Three Famous Sudanese

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
Shurahbeel Ahmed is a famous Sudanese artist. He is famous for his cartoon character Ammack Tango. He is also good at singing and can sing songs in six different languages!
Rawda Al-Haj is a famous Sudanese poet. She travels all over the world and wins lots of prizes. In 2008, she won a prize at a Cairo Festival. Four years later, she won one of the most famous prizes - the Souk Okaz prize. People also read her poetry in French and English.

3. Look at the sentences. Who are they about?
(Shurahbeel Ahmed / Rawda Al-Haj)
A) ... is a famous artist.
B) ... writes poetry.
C) ... won a prize in 2008.
D) ... drew a famous cartoon character.
E) ... likes singing.
F) ... travels to read her poems.

4. Talk about Jamal Hassan Saeed.
A) Who is he?
B) Why is he famous?
C) What do you know about him?

Lesson 4: Once Upon a Time

1. Look at the pictures. What do you think the story is about?

2. Read the story. Were you correct?
Once upon a time there was a young girl called Nada. She was a happy little girl. She lived in a village by the River Nile. One morning she went down to the river to get some water. Suddenly she heard something.
"What are you doing?" She heard.
Nada looked up and saw a big crocodile. She was very surprised. "You can talk!" she said.
"Yes, I can talk. Are you afraid of me?" the crocodile asked.
"Yes," she said.
"It's OK," said the crocodile. "I don't eat children."
Nada wasn't afraid now. She was excited about talking to the crocodile and walked up to it. But when she was next to the crocodile, it tried to bite her. Nada jumped back. She was very angry. She picked up a stick and hit the crocodile.
"Ow!" said the crocodile, and it swam away.

3. Read the story again. Say the sentences in the correct order.
A) Nada was happy because she lived in a small village by the River Nile.
B) Nada was angry because the crocodile tried to bite her.
C) Nada was surprised because the crocodile could talk.
D) Nada was excited because she wanted to talk to the crocodile.
E) Nada was happy again because the crocodile swam away.
F) Nada was afraid that the crocodile eats children.

4. Act out the story.

Lesson 5: A Young Artist

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the texts. Match the headings with the texts.
(Headings: Something Amani did. Amani as a child. Amani now.)
A) Amani Zain Elabden is a young painter from Sudan. She started drawing when she was very young using crayons. She was good at drawing trees and flowers. She enjoyed art classes at school and studied painting at university.
B) Amani now draws cartoons for children. Her drawings and paintings are in many newspapers and books for schools. She loves working with children.
C) Amani travelled from Khartoum to El Damazin and spent two weeks there. She enjoyed showing her paintings to people and teaching the El Damazin school children to paint.

3. Read the texts again. Are the sentences true or false?
A) Amani started drawing using crayons.
B) She liked drawing pictures of animals.
C) She didn't like art at school.
D) Now she draws children's cartoons.
E) You can see her drawings and paintings in school books.
F) She went to El Damazin to write a book.
G) She taught some children there.

4. Ask and answer questions about drawing and painting.

Lesson 6: Handicrafts

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. What is it about?
Sudan is famous for handicrafts. Sudanese people make them with their tools and their hands. People use Sudanese handicrafts every day. Tourists also buy them because they make nice presents.
There are lots of useful clay pots. These are used for keeping water, tea and coffee. Women in Darfur make mats from palm leaves. Men make shoes from leather. You can also find a lot of wonderful jewellery made of silver and gold. So, you can find everything you need in Sudan.
(What is the text about? A) Making leather in Sudan. B) Things you can buy in Sudan. C) Things that people make in Sudan.)

3. Make sentences. Use the verbs in the box.
(used, made)
A) Handicrafts are... with tools and hands.
B) Clay pots are... for keeping water.
C) Mats are... of palm leaves.
D) Shoes are... of leather.
E) Beads are... for making jewellery.

4. Ask and answer questions about Sudanese handicrafts.

Lesson 7: Sudanese Music

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the descriptions. Point to the pictures.
A) You play this instrument using your hands or a small stick.
B) This instrument is made of wood. It has strings and you play it with both hands.
C) You shake this instrument and hit the skin with your hands or a small stick.
D) This is a wind instrument. You blow air into it.

3. Listen to Tim. Which kind of music is he talking about?

4. Ask and answer questions about musical instruments.

Lesson 8: Which Art do you like?

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the text. Point to the pictures.
When you think of 'the arts', you probably think of painting and drawing. You may think "I'm not good at that!" But, there are many other arts you can do.
If you are good with your hands, you could make jewellery or play an instrument. If you like talking, you could try singing. If you like writing, you could write poetry or stories. Some people like acting or telling stories in front of other people.
The arts can be lots of fun. The most important thing is to find an art you like.

3. Read the text again. Are the sentences true or false?
A) There are lots of types of art.
B) Playing an instrument is a not a type of art.
C) If you like using your hands, you should try singing.
D) The arts can be lots of fun.
E) The most important thing is to try.

4. Talk about your favourite type of Art.

UNIT 7

Lesson 1: Eid Mubarak!

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the texts. Point to the pictures.
Eid is an important celebration in the Islamic religion. In Sudan and around the world, Muslims celebrate two Eids each year. Everyone is very happy during this time!
The first Eid is Eid El Fitr, which happens at the end of Ramadan. During this special time, families and friends get together and give each other presents such as sweets and new clothes. People also give money to the poor. This is called Zakat.
The second Eid is Eid El Adha, which happens at the end of the Hajj. In villages and towns, friends, family and neighbours visit each other and eat lots of sheep meat and sweets together.

3. Talk about what you like about Eid El Adha.

Lesson 2: Celebrations around the World

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the texts. Point to the pictures.

On the 5th of November, children in the UK celebrate Bonfire Night. They always have a big bonfire and watch fireworks. They sometimes eat warm food, like soup and potatoes. The sky looks very bright from the fireworks.

Every year people in China celebrate the Chinese New Year. It starts on the 23rd day of the last Chinese month. There is usually a big party in the streets and a special dance called the Dragon Dance.

On the fourth Thursday in November people all over America celebrate Thanksgiving Day. Families get together for a feast. They eat turkey and lots of other delicious food - sometimes too much!

3. Ask and answer questions about celebrations around the world.

Lesson 3: A School Sports Day

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the sentences. Point to the pictures.

Two people run this race together. They each have one leg together.

You run and then jump as far as you can.

You run and then jump as high as you can.

There are two teams in this sport. The teams pull on a rope and try to pull the other team over a line.

This is a fun race. You have to hold an egg on a spoon and run as fast as you can. You mustn't drop the egg.

3. Read the email. Point to the pictures.
New message
To: tim@SMILE.sd
Subject: Hello!
Hi Tim,
It's the school sports day today. We only have it one day every year and you're not here! It's one of my favourite days of the year, but it's not the same without you.
Tell your friends in Sudan about all the different games we play at the sports day. I know you want to tell them that you usually win the long jump. But tell them I always win the high jump!
You should tell them about our favourite games. We love the fun ones like the egg and spoon race, the three-legged race and the tug-of-war! Tell them our parents sometimes do these races too. It's so funny watching them!
Write soon,
Ben

4. Ask and answer questions about sports.

Lesson 4: Independence Day

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen. Point to the pictures.

3. Read the text. What happens on the first of January?
The 1st of January is Sudanese Independence Day. Every year Sudanese people celebrate this special day. Independence Day is also the first day of the new year in most parts of the world. In Sudan there are fireworks and lots of celebrations. There is a big parade and many people come to watch. In 2018, Sudan celebrated 62 years of independence.

4. Talk about how you celebrate Independence Day.

Lesson 5: International Children's Day

1. Look at the pictures. What do you know about this day?

2. Read the poster. Answer the questions.
International Children's Day
Celebrate this important day with us on 1st June.
We think:

All children under 14 should play and go to school.

No child should have to work.

All children should have food, water and somewhere to live.
Some children in Sudan have a job and many of these jobs are dangerous.
In cities, young boys sell drinks, clean shoes or wash cars.
Young girls sometimes work in factories, in the market or cleaning other people's houses.
Children who don't go to school can't get good jobs when they grow up.
A) What should children have?
B) What should/shouldn't children do?

3. Make sentences. Say what children should and shouldn't do.
A) Children should / shouldn't go to school.
B) Children under 14 should / shouldn't work.
C) We should / shouldn't celebrate International Children's Day.
D) Young girls should / shouldn't work in factories.
E) Children should / shouldn't have enough to eat.

4. Ask and answer questions about your plans for the future.

Lesson 6: A Wedding

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Listen to Claire and Fadia. Point to the pictures.

3. Listen again. Answer the questions.
A) Where are the girls?
B) What are they doing?
C) What does Fadia give to Claire?
D) What surprises Claire?
E) What is the bride wearing?

4. Look at the pictures. What is happening?
British Weddings
A) The bride usually wears a white dress and the groom wears a suit.
B) There is usually a big party - with a very big cake!
C) After the wedding, the bride and groom usually go on a special holiday together.

Lesson 7: A Special Day

1. Look at the pictures. What can you see?

2. Read the message. What is it about?
Dear Claire,
My aunt Haseena is very happy because she has a new baby girl! Next week my aunt and uncle are having a naming ceremony when the baby is seven days old. All the family and the neighbours are coming.
Uncle Adil is getting a sheep and we are having a feast - there will be lots of food. People often bring presents or money. We're giving the baby some nice baby clothes. Sometimes, someone in the family can choose the name of a baby. I want her to take my grandmother's name.
Would you like to come with me?
Love,
Fadia

3. Read the message again. Answer the questions.
A) What is the celebration?
B) When is it?
C) What is Fadia's uncle going to do?
D) What present is Fadia bringing?
E) Whose name does Fadia want the baby to take?
F) What does she ask Claire?

4. Imagine you are going to a celebration in Sudan. Ask and answer questions about it.

Lesson 8: Special Days

1. Look at the pictures. What are the celebrations?

2. Read the message. What is it about?
(Text message conversation)
Tim: Hi Ben!
Ben: Hi Tim, what are you doing?
Tim: I'm at a wedding with my friend Amien. I don't usually like weddings, but Sudanese weddings are fun and there's lots of food. There's a type of bread called kisera, it's delicious. The bride has drawings on her hands painted with henna. The groom is wearing a suit just like at home in New Zealand.
Ben: Wow, that sounds amazing. I wish I was there too.

3. Listen to Claire and Fadia. What is different?

4. Talk about your plans for tomorrow.

UNIT 8

Lesson 1: Holiday Time

1. Look at the map. What can you see?
(A map of Sudan showing Dongola, Khartoum, Kosti, Ed Damazin)

2. Listen to Halima and Abubakr. Which places doesn't Halima talk about?

3. Listen again. Answer the questions.
A) What town is Halima going to visit?
B) Who is she going to visit there?
C) Where is her father going to take her?
D) Why are they going to go there?
E) What else is she going to see?

4. Imagine you are going on a holiday. Ask and answer questions about it.

Lesson 2: Getting Around

1. Look at the pictures. Name the different types of transport.

2. Read the brochure. What type of transport is more comfortable than the others?
HOW TO GET THERE
BUS
Bus journeys take about eight hours, sometimes longer. The roads are not very good and buses are less comfortable than cars. However, buses are cheaper than other types of transport.
PLANE
Planes are more expensive than cars or buses, but they are faster. Planes are very comfortable and the journey takes just over one hour.
CAR
Cars are not as cheap as buses but they are cheaper than planes. You will need a four-wheel drive car, as some of the roads are very bad. Cars are faster than buses because they don't stop in the towns and villages.

3. Read the text. What is it about?
There are almost 5,000 kilometres of railway lines in Sudan. The first railway line was built in the late 1890s between Wadi Halfa and Khartoum. Another railway line goes from Khartoum to Port Sudan. There is also a line that goes south and west all the way to Nyala.

Lesson 3: Places to Visit

1. Look at the pictures. Do you know where these places are?

2. Read the brochure. Which two photos from Activity 1 are missing?
Sudan has lots of beautiful and interesting places to visit.
Kassala is in east of Sudan near Eritrea. Buses from Khartoum or Port Sudan take seven hours. Things to see include the Taka Mountains, Gash River and the Well of Totil.
You can go shopping in the Rashaida market and buy some bright coloured clothes. You can drink coffee in one of the cafés. Or you can walk by the beautiful mango trees.
Some people also go diving to see the coral, dolphins and other sealife in the Red Sea.
Kasalla and the Red Sea are great places to rest and take it easy.

3. Ask and answer questions about a place you would like to visit.
A) Where would you like to go?
B) How would you like to go there?
C) Why would you like to go there?
D) What would you like to do?
E) What would you like to see?

Lesson 4: Radom National Park

1. Look at the picture. What animals can you see?

2. Read the text. What is it about?
Radom National Park is in the south-west of Darfur. The park is mostly grasslands and has some small rivers. There are lots of beautiful birds in the park, but a lot of the animals have gone now. Fifty years ago you could find elephants, hippos, rhinos and giraffes in the park. People hunted the animals and cut down the trees so now things have changed.
In many African countries, protected national parks bring lots of tourists to the country. The tourists visit the parks to go on safari to see the animals. When they visit the park they spend lots of money. This is good for the country.

3. Read the text again. Ask and answer the questions.
A) Where is Radom National Park?
B) What can you see in the park?
C) Why have a lot of the animals gone?
D) Where do lots of tourists go every year?
E) Why do tourists visit national parks?
F) What do tourists bring to a country?

4. Talk about ways to Help Radom National Park.

Lesson 5: A Special Journey

1. Look at the pictures. What do you think the story will be about?

2. Read the story. Answer the questions.
Mariam lives in Nyala with her parents. In November she is getting married and her family are all going to the wedding. Ahmed, her older brother, lives in Port Sudan. He is going to take a plane to Khartoum and then another one from Khartoum to Nyala. Both flights take about one hour, but he has to wait in Khartoum for the second flight.
Miriam's younger brother, Ishag, works in El Obeid. He's going to travel on a truck because this is very cheap. The road between El Obeid and Nyala is about 400 kilometres but it is very good. It will only take about 8 hours.
A) Who's coming to Mariam's wedding?
B) Who has to travel a long way?

3. Listen to the story. What differences do you hear?

4. Imagine you are Ishag. Talk about your sister's wedding.

Lesson 6: A Visit to Dubai

1. Look at the pictures. What is happening?

2. Read the email. What questions does Amien ask?
New message
To: tim@SMILE.sd
Subject: Dubai!
Hi Tim,
I arrived in Dubai on Saturday with my mum and dad. My uncle met us - he works as a teacher here. It's a great city and there are lots of interesting things to see and do. Yesterday we went up the Burj Khalifa. It's really tall! In the evening we went to a restaurant and I ate a pizza - it was delicious. Have you ever eaten a pizza?
Today I'm going to watch a football match in the national stadium. The local team, Al Ahli, are playing against Al Shabab. Have you ever watched a football match in a stadium? This is my first time and I'm really excited. I'm going to send you an email about it tomorrow.
See you soon,
Your friend, Amien

3. Read the email again. Say the sentences in the correct order.
A) eat pizza
B) arrive in Dubai
C) watch a football match
D) visit the Burj Khalifa

4. Play: 'Have you ever...?'

Lesson 7: My Journey

1. Look at the map. What can you see?
(A map of the Nile River from Lake Victoria to the Red Sea)

2. Read the story. What is it about?
My mother is from Lake Victoria in Uganda. One day I decided to travel to see the countries to the north. "Be careful," my mother said. "Travelling to new places can be dangerous."
I travelled north, through fields with mangoes, bananas and pineapples. Along my banks there were many people. Some came to see me and others came to wash, drink or go fishing.
When I came to Khartoum, I met another big river. We became friends and decided to travel together. Next, we came to a land that was very dry and full of sand. The sun was hot, but we stayed cool.
After many kilometres of travelling, I finally reached the end of my journey and joined a beautiful sea.

3. Read the story again. Answer the questions.
A) Where is Lake Victoria?
B) Why does the mother say "Be careful"?
C) Why did people go to the river?
D) What happened in Khartoum?
E) Was the land green after Khartoum?
F) Where did the journey finish?

4. Quiz time!
A) Can you name six types of fruit?
B) What is the name of the river that runs through Khartoum?
C) Where does the Blue Nile start?
D) How many countries does the Blue Nile travel through?

Lesson 8: Time to Travel

1. Look at the pictures. What is Halima going to do on her holiday?

2. Listen. Are the sentences true or false?
A) Halima has never been to El Damazin before.
B) She is going to go alone.
C) She is going to visit her father's family.
D) She is going to see some paintings.
E) She isn't going to see the Blue Nile.

3. Talk about different types of transport.