==Start of OCR for page 1==
3
TREASURE ISLAND
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
MACMILLAN
Treasure Island
Robert Louis Stevenson
A NCCER, Ministry of General Education programme in partnership with Macmillan Education
MACMILLAN READERS
المركز القومي للمناهج والمبحث التربوي
بخت الرضا
==End of OCR for page 1==
==Start of OCR for page 2==
MACMILLAN READERS
ELEMENTARY LEVEL
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Treasure Island
Retold by Stephen Colbourn
MACMILLAN
==End of OCR for page 2==
==Start of OCR for page 3==
MACMILLAN READERS
ELEMENTARY LEVEL
Founding Editor: John Milne
The Macmillan Readers provide a choice of enjoyable reading
materials for learners of English. The series is published at six levels
– Starter, Beginner, Elementary, Pre-intermediate, Intermediate
and Upper.
Level control
Information, structure and vocabulary are controlled to suit the
students' ability at each level.
The number of words at each level:
Starter
about 300 basic words
Beginner
about 600 basic words
Elementary
about 1100 basic words
Pre-intermediate
about 1400 basic words
Intermediate
about 1600 basic words
Upper
about 2200 basic words
Vocabulary
Some difficult words and phrases in this book are important for
understanding the story. Some of these words are explained in the
story and some are shown in the pictures. From Pre-intermediate
level upwards, words are marked with a number like this: ...'. These
words are explained in the Glossary at the end of the book.

Contents
Notes About This Story 4
1 The Old Pirate 8
2 The Black Spot 13
3 The Captain's Papers 18
4 Long John Silver 21
5 The Apple Barrel 25
6 Murder 28
7 The Man on the Island 31
8 The Stockade 34
9 The Fight with the Pirates 39
10 Ben Gunn's Boat 43
11 Aboard the Hispaniola 45
12 The Pirates' Prisoner 49
13 The Search for the Treasure 51
14 Flint's Treasure 56
Points for Understanding 60
==End of OCR for page 3==
==Start of OCR for page 4==
Notes About This Story
The Author
Robert Louis Stevenson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland,
in November 1850. Treasure Island is one of his most famous
stories. His other stories include Kidnapped, The Black
Arrow, The Strange Case Of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, and The
Master of Ballantrae.
Stevenson was ill for much of his life. He went to live
in the South Pacific because the weather was warm there.
He died in Samoa in December 1894.

The Book
The story takes place in the middle of the eighteenth
century. It is the story of pirates who stole treasure from
ships in the Caribbean. These pirates buried the treasure
on an island. The pirates were cruel and violent. They all
wanted the treasure. They fought and killed each other.
Treasure Island is not a true story. Captain Flint and
Long John Silver were not real pirates. Treasure Island is
not a real place. But there were pirates in many parts of
the world in the eighteenth century.
There were pirates in the Mediterranean, the
Caribbean and the China Seas. Ships went from South
America to Spain. These ships carried gold, silver and
goods across the Caribbean. And they were often
attacked by pirates. The pirates killed the sailors and stole
everything in the ships.
Some famous pirates were Captain Henry Morgan,
Blackbeard and Mary Read. They were cruel and violent
people. Pirates were often hanged if they were caught.
People always enjoy stories about pirates. There are
many books and films about pirates. Some of the stories
are true and some of them are not true. All of them are
exciting! Treasure Island is one of the most famous stories.

[Illustration of a pirate flag with a skull and crossbones]
the Jolly Roger
(the pirate flag)

[Illustration of a musket]
a musket

[Illustration of a large, locked wooden chest]
a sea-chest

[Illustration of several coins]
pieces of eight

[Illustration of a curved sword]
a cutlass

[Illustration of a flintlock pistol]
a pistol

[Illustration of a compass]
a compass
north
north north west
north west
west north west
west
west south west
south west
south south west
north north east
north east
east north east
east
east south east
south east
south south east
south
4
5
==End of OCR for page 4==
==Start of OCR for page 5==
[Illustration showing a cutaway diagram of a large sailing ship, the Hispaniola.]
The sailing ship Hispaniola
Labels pointing to parts of the ship:
mainmast
apple barrel and water barrel
cannon
crew space
captain's cabin
cook
galley
water
cannon balls

[Illustration of a smaller boat with oars.]
a longboat

[Illustration of the full sailing ship at sea.]
6
7
==End of OCR for page 5==
==Start of OCR for page 6==
1
The Old Pirate
My name is Jim Hawkins. I am going to tell you a story
about pirates and treasure. This story started a long time
ago, in the year 1756, when I was twelve years old.
My father owned an inn called The Admiral Benbow.
It was a small inn on the south coast of England. The
Admiral Benbow was not very busy. We did not get many
customers.
Sometimes travellers stayed at the inn. They could buy
a meal and have something to drink. They usually stayed
for only one night. But I remember one traveller who
stayed at The Admiral Benbow for several weeks.
I remember the day he arrived. A horse and cart came
along the road and stopped outside the inn. An old sailor
got down from the cart and came to the inn door. He was
singing a sailor's song.
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest –
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum!
The old sailor knocked loudly on the inn door and my
father opened it. I stood next to my father and looked at
the sailor.
The man was tall and his face was brown from the sun.
His hair was white. It was tied in a tail at the back of his
head. He wore an old blue coat.
'Bring me a glass of rum,' the sailor said loudly to my
father.
I looked at the horse and cart. There was a wooden
box on the cart — the sailor's wooden chest. It was big and
it looked heavy.
8
'Do many people stay here?' the sailor asked my father.
'Not many,' my father replied. 'We always have empty
rooms.'
'Good. I will stay here,' said the sailor. 'I will stay here
for several weeks.' He took some money out of his pocket.
'Take this money. Tell me when I have spent it all.'
He gave my father four gold coins.
'Thank you, sir,' said my father. 'May I ask your name?'
'Call me Captain,' said the sailor. 'Now, bring my chest
and show me my room.'
My father carried the heavy wooden chest into the
inn. He carried it to the Captain's room. I did not know
what was in the chest, but it looked very heavy.
The Captain stayed for several weeks. I was afraid of
him. He drank bottles of rum and he was drunk every day.
He sang songs and shouted loudly when he was drunk.
'Boy!' he shouted. 'Bring me more rum!'
When I had brought the rum he told me stories. He
told stories about pirates and ships. He told me about
robbing ships and killing men. Then he sang sailors' songs.
'Jim,' the Captain often said to me, 'Jim - look out for
a man with one leg. Watch for a man with one leg. Tell
me if you see him. Do this and I'll pay you well.'
I said nothing. I was too afraid to speak. Who was this
man with one leg?
Winter came and my father fell sick. He was very ill and
the doctor came to see him every day. The doctor's name
was Dr Livesey. He said my father did not have long to
live.
My mother and I were very busy. We had to look after
9
==End of OCR for page 6==
==Start of OCR for page 7==
the inn while my father lay ill in bed. But my father did
not get much rest. The Captain drank rum and sang and
shouted.
'Please be quiet,' Dr Livesey said to the Captain. 'There
is a very sick man upstairs.'
'What?' shouted the Captain. 'What did you say? No
one tells me what to do!' He pulled a knife out of the
pocket of his coat.
'Put that knife down at once,' Dr Livesey said. He
stared hard at the Captain. 'Put that knife down. Or I will
call the soldiers to arrest you.'
The Captain stared at Dr Livesey, but he put down the
knife. He drank another glass of rum.
'And if you drink rum every day, you will soon be dead,'
the doctor went on.
The Captain was quiet for several days.
Dr Livesey was visiting my father one morning when a
stranger came to the inn. The Doctor was upstairs with
my father and mother. I was alone downstairs, in the main
room of the inn.
The stranger opened the front door and looked at me.
I did not like the man. He was dirty and had a ragged
beard. His face was hard and cruel.
'Where's Captain Bill?' he asked.
'I don't know Captain Bill,' I replied. I did not want to
tell the man anything.
'I know he's staying here,' said the stranger. 'I want to
talk to him.'
The Captain came into the room. He did not know
the stranger was there.
10
'Hello, Billy,' said the stranger.
'Black Dog!' said the Captain. His face went white.
'What do you want?'
'We must talk,' said Black Dog to the Captain. Then
the stranger shouted to me, 'Get us some rum, boy.'
I went into the kitchen to get some rum. The Captain
and Black Dog were talking. Suddenly they started to
shout.
I went back into the room. The Captain had a short,
heavy sword called a cutlass. He raised the cutlass and ran
towards Black Dog. Black Dog ran out of the inn. The
Captain chased him and swung his cutlass at Black Dog's
head. But the Captain didn't hit him. The cutlass hit the
wooden sign above the inn door. Black Dog escaped and
ran down the road.
The Captain stopped running and turned round. His
face was a terrible purple colour. He stepped back into the
inn and fell on the floor.
'Dr Livesey!' I called. 'Dr Livesey! Help!'
Dr Livesey came downstairs from my father's room. He
looked closely at the Captain.
'I said that rum is going to kill him,' Dr Livesey said.
'We must put him to bed. Let him sleep.'
I helped the Doctor to put the Captain into his bed.
We now had two sick men in the house and I looked after
them both. But soon there was only one sick man because
my father died suddenly one night.
11
==End of OCR for page 7==
==Start of OCR for page 8==
[Illustration: The Captain, with a cutlass raised, chases another man, Black Dog, out of the inn door.]
The Captain chased Black Dog and swung his cutlass at Black Dog's head.

2
The Black Spot
Dr Livesey was very kind. He helped us make arrange-
ments for my father's funeral.
The Captain did not leave his bed for many days. He
did not get up until after the funeral. When he got up he
started to drink rum.
'I must get away from here, Jim,' the Captain said to
me. 'Tell Dr Livesey. Tell him I was a pirate. Tell him I
sailed on Captain Flint's ship.'
I had heard of Captain Flint. Sailors told stories about
him. Captain Flint had been a terrible pirate. He had
killed many men and robbed many ships.
'Flint's men want to find me,' the Captain went on. 'I
was on Flint's ship with them. Now they want the chest.
They want the sea-chest in my room. I must get away.'
But the Captain could not go anywhere. He was too
drunk.
I heard a noise outside the inn. It was the noise of
someone tapping a stick on the road. The noise came closer
and closer. Then I heard a voice calling, 'Will anyone help
me?'
I looked outside and saw a beggar standing in the road.
He was dressed in ragged clothes and wore a green cloth
over his eyes. He was blind. He tapped a stick in front of
him as he walked.
'Will anyone help a poor blind man?' shouted the
beggar, 'Will anyone tell me where I am?'
'You are at The Admiral Benbow Inn,' I said.
'I hear a young voice, a kind voice,' said the beggar.
13
==End of OCR for page 8==
==Start of OCR for page 9==
'Will you hold my hand, young sir?'
I held out my hand to the beggar and he took hold of
it. But the blind man suddenly pulled me towards him
and twisted my arm.
'Now, boy, take me to the Captain,' said the beggar.
'Take me to the Captain or I'll break your arm.'
He twisted my arm again and I cried out. I was very
frightened, but I took him to the Captain.
I thought that the Captain would be angry. I thought
that he would shout. But the Captain said nothing. He sat
at a table with a bottle of rum in front of him. His face
was white.
'Blind Pew!' said the Captain. 'You've come at last.'
'Aye, Captain, I've come,' said Pew, the blind beggar.
'Now, boy,' Pew said to me, 'hold out the Captain's left
hand.'
I did as I was told. I took hold of the Captain's left
hand and held it out to Blind Pew. Blind Pew put a piece
of paper in the Captain's hand. There was a large black
spot on the paper.
'The Black Spot!' shouted the Captain. The colour of
his face changed from white to red.
'Aye, Captain, it's the Black Spot,' said Blind Pew.
'Now you know. We'll come for you tonight.'
Blind Pew let go of my arm and walked to the door. He
held his stick out in front of him. He left the inn and I
heard his stick tap on the road.
The Captain stood up. He put his hand on his throat.
His face was purple.
'The chest, Jim! Get my sea-chest!'
The Captain fell down onto the floor.
'Mother!' I called.
14
[Illustration: A blind man, Blind Pew, puts a piece of paper into the hand of the Captain, who is sitting at a table with a bottle and a mug.]
Blind Pew put a piece of paper in the Captain's hand. There
was a large black spot on the paper.
==End of OCR for page 9==
==Start of OCR for page 10==
We both tried to help the Captain, but he was dead.
Quickly I told my mother what had happened. 'Men
are coming,' I said. 'Men – pirates – I don't know. They
want the Captain's sea-chest.'
'We must get help,' said my mother. 'We must get help
from the village.'
My mother and I ran outside. We ran to the village. We
told people there was trouble at The Admiral Benbow.
We told them that pirates were coming.
But no one wanted to help us. Everyone was afraid. At
last one man sent his son to get Dr Livesey.
'Dr Livesey will know what to do,' said the man.
It was dark when my mother and I returned to The
Admiral Benbow. We were alone and afraid.
I lit a candle. There, on the floor, lay the body of the
Captain. The Black Spot lay in his hand.
'Let's open his sea-chest,' I said.
We went to the Captain's room to find the sea-chest.
The wooden box was locked. I had to look in the dead
man's pockets for a key.
The Captain's face was purple and black. His eyes were
open. His body was cold. I found a key on a chain round
his neck.
We opened the wooden chest with the key. Inside the
chest was a bag of money and a leather packet. My mother
started to count the money.
'I'll take the money he owes me and no more,' she said.
But there were many coins. Some coins were English
pounds. Some coins were Spanish pieces of eight.
I heard a noise outside. I heard a whistle.
16
'Hurry!' I said. 'Hurry. The pirates are coming.'
But my mother kept counting the gold coins.
Outside I heard the tap-tap, tap-tap of a stick. I knew
Blind Pew had come back.
'Leave the money and run!' I said. 'The pirates will kill us.'
I took the leather packet from the chest. My mother
took a few coins. We opened the back door and ran out of
the inn. We ran towards the village.
Behind us we heard shouts. Men were outside the inn.
They kicked open the front door. Then I heard the voice
of Blind Pew.
'Get the chest! Get the map!' Blind Pew shouted.
Suddenly we heard another sound. My mother and I
stopped running. We could not see the road because the
night was dark. But we heard the sound of horses. We
heard many men riding horses towards us. Then we heard
the sound of a gunshot. A pistol was fired in the darkness.
'Run!' a voice shouted.
'Don't leave me!' shouted Blind Pew.
My mother and I went back towards the inn. Lights
were burning in the windows. We saw men running
towards the sea. Blind Pew ran along the road tapping his
stick. The sound of the horses on the road was getting
louder.
'Don't leave me!' Blind Pew shouted. He tried to run
after his friends. But the road was rough and he fell to the
ground.
The horsemen did not see Blind Pew in the darkness.
They rode over him. Blind Pew gave a terrible scream. I
knew he was dead.
17
==End of OCR for page 10==
==Start of OCR for page 11==
3
The Captain's Papers
The horsemen were Customs men. Customs men guarded
the coast around Britain. They tried to catch anyone who
broke the law. Dr Livesey had received our message and
he had brought the Customs men to the inn.
There was a man called Squire Trelawney with Dr
Livesey. Squire John Trelawney was rich. He lived in a big
white house on the hill outside the village. Dr Livesey
and Squire Trelawney asked us many questions.
'What did the pirates want?' asked Dr Livesey. 'Did
they want money?'
'The old Captain had some money,' I said. 'But they
were looking for something else. I think they wanted this
leather packet.'
I showed them the leather packet from the Captain's
sea-chest. Dr Livesey opened the packet. There were
papers inside.
'These papers belonged to Captain Flint, the pirate,'
said Squire Trelawney. He pointed at one of the papers.
'Look. Here is his name.'
'Was the dead Captain called Captain Flint?' I asked.
'No, no,' said Squire Trelawney. 'The dead man here is
not Captain Flint. Captain Flint died in South America.
He was a terrible pirate. For twenty years he robbed ships
and killed men. He was a rich man when he died. But no
one knows what happened to all his money.'
A thick piece of paper fell out of the leather packet.
Dr Livesey picked it up.
'Look at this,' said Dr Livesey. 'It's a map.'
18
[Illustration of a treasure map of an island.]
Treasure Island
August 1750
TALL TREE, SPY GLASS HILL. NORTH BY NORTH EAST, TEN FEET.
[Labels on the map include:]
Spy Glass Hill
Flint's Treasure
NORTH BAY
ZEN GUNN'S CAVE
STOCKADE
[A compass rose is in the bottom right corner.]
[Two sailing ships are drawn on the map.]
Captain Flint's Map
==End of OCR for page 11==
==Start of OCR for page 12==
Squire Trelawney took the paper and put it on the
table. It was a map of an island. Some instructions were
written on the map. There was also a red cross drawn on
the map. Over the cross, in red letters, was written "Flint's
Treasure".
'This map shows us where Flint buried his treasure,'
said Squire Trelawney. 'The letters tell us how to get to
the island. We're the only ones who know the secret now.'
'But other men know about the map,' said Dr Livesey.
'The men who came to the inn tonight – the pirates –
they were looking for the map.'
'I am a rich man,' said Squire Trelawney. 'I will go to
Bristol. I will pay for the use of a ship. There are many
ships in Bristol. A ship will be ready in three weeks. We
will sail to this island and find the treasure. We will dig it
up.'
I looked at Squire Trelawney. I did not think he wanted
me to go with him, but I was wrong.
'Dr Livesey,' said Squire Trelawney, 'you will be the
ship's doctor. And Jim Hawkins will be the cabin boy.'
20
4
Long John Silver
Squire Trelawney spoke to my mother. He said he wanted
me to go with him on a sea voyage. He arranged for a boy
to work at the Admiral Benbow while I was away. Then
Squire Trelawney went to Bristol to charter a ship.
I was very excited. I wanted to sail to Treasure Island.
At last, Dr Livesey received a letter from Squire Tre-
lawney in Bristol.

[Image of a letter on a scroll.]
Old Anchor, Inn, Bristol,
1 March 1756
Dear Dr Livesey
I have chartered a ship. The ship's name
is the Hispaniola. I have also hired a crew
of twenty sailors.
I have had some good luck. A ship's
cook came to see me. His name is
Long John Silver. He is an excellent man.
He chose the crew for me and he will
sail with us. A second ship will sail to
Treasure Island if we do not return in two
months.
Long John Silver was a sailor for many
years. He was badly injured in a sea
battle and lost a leg. He has not sailed
for some time. He now owns an inn in
Bristol, but he wants to sail again.
Please come to Bristol straight away
and bring Jim Hawkins.
John Trelawney
21
==End of OCR for page 12==
==Start of OCR for page 13==
Dr Livesey came to The Admiral Benbow and I said
goodbye to my mother. Then the Doctor took me to
Bristol.
We travelled in a coach pulled by horses. It was a long
journey and I had never travelled so far before. I had
never seen a city.
We arrived at the port of Bristol early in the morning.
The port was very busy. It was full of ships. Ships sailed to
and from every part of the world. All day and all night
men loaded and unloaded all kinds of cargo from the
ships.
There were many sailors in the port. They were tough
men with skin burned by the sun and the wind. They
wore rings in their ears. Each man wore his hair tied in a
tail at the back of his head.
We went to the ship - the Hispaniola. Squire Tre-
lawney was not a sailor. He had paid a crew to sail the
ship and he had hired a captain. The man's name was
Captain Smollett.
The person who interested me most was the ship's
cook - Long John Silver. His left leg was missing and he
carried a crutch under his left arm. But he moved quickly
and he could run.
I saw him climb onto the ship like a monkey. He was a
tall, strong man with a clever face. He laughed a lot. I
liked him immediately – and he liked me too.
'Jim Hawkins,' he said, 'you'll be a good sailor.'
He told jokes and laughed. He pointed to the ships
around us and told me stories about them. He told me
about the countries they had come from. He told me about
the cargoes they were carrying. I listened and learned.
Everything was new and interesting.
22
[Illustration: A one-legged man (Long John Silver) stands on the deck of a ship with a boy (Jim Hawkins) and another man, pointing out at other ships in the harbor.]
Long John Silver pointed to the ships around us and told me
stories about them. I listened and learned.
==End of OCR for page 13==
==Start of OCR for page 14==
The rest of the crew came aboard the ship. The next
morning, we sailed away from Bristol and I was kept busy
in the galley.
I was the ship's cabin boy. So I worked with Long John
Silver in the galley. The galley was the ship's kitchen. I
helped to cook and carry the food to the crew. After their
meals, I cleared away the plates and washed them.
At the end of each day I was very tired. I did not sleep
in a bed – I slept in a hammock. The hammock hung
between two wooden posts. The hammock moved as the
ship moved, from side to side, and it was very comfort-
able.
Captain Smollett came to look at the galley. Silver was
polite and helpful. Captain Smollett looked hard at Long
John Silver. But he did not say anything.
Long John Silver kept a parrot. This bird lived in a
cage in the galley. Silver had taught it to speak.
'The parrot's name is Captain Flint,' said Silver.
'Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!' said the parrot, over
and over again.
I was happy at sea. We sailed west into the Atlantic
Ocean. There was some bad weather for a few days. Then
the wind and rain disappeared and the weather became
warmer.
Every day Captain Smollett wrote in the ship's log. He
wrote about our journey and about what was happening
on the ship.
The crew seemed quite happy. They ate their food.
They sang songs and told stories and the days passed
quickly. Long John Silver cooked the men's food. The
men ate the food and never complained. They seemed
afraid of Silver.
24
5
The Apple Barrel
There were two tall wooden barrels on deck. One of the
barrels had fresh water inside. There were apples inside
the other barrel. The men could take apples and water
whenever they wanted to.
We had been at sea for a month. The apple barrel was
nearly empty. I climbed into the barrel because I could
not see the bottom of it. There were only one or two apples
left. I started to eat one while I was inside the barrel.
It was almost dark and I had finished work. The inside
of the barrel was warm. The darkness and the movement
of the ship made me sleepy. I fell asleep for a few minutes.
I woke up when I heard voices. Two men were stand-
ing by the barrel and talking. One voice belonged to Long
John Silver. The other voice was a young sailor's. They
did not know I was in the barrel.
'I sailed with Flint,' said Silver. 'I was fighting for Flint
when I lost my leg. A cannon shot blew my leg off. The
same cannon shot made Pew blind. Most of the men
aboard this ship sailed with Flint too. I hired the crew.
They know me – they are my shipmates.'
'How long will you wait, Silver?' asked the other voice.
'When will we take over the ship?'
'I'm not in a hurry,' said Silver. 'Let the Squire and his
friends take us to the island. They've got the map. Let
them find the treasure – Flint's treasure.'
'And after that?'
'We'll kill them all,' said Long John Silver. 'Dead men
tell no tales.'
25
==End of OCR for page 14==
==Start of OCR for page 15==
[Illustration: Two sailors are standing by a large barrel on the deck of a ship, talking.]
Two men were standing by the barrel and talking.
They did not know I was in the barrel.
Their conversation stopped. The look-out at the top of
the mast shouted, 'Land-ho! I see land!'
The crew ran onto the deck and stared across the sea.
While they were looking towards the land, I got out of
the barrel. I suddenly felt very afraid of Long John Silver.
I looked across the sea. There was an island to the
south. We could see it in the bright moonlight.
Captain Smollett talked to Squire Trelawney and Dr
Livesey. Then he spoke to the crew.
'Men,' said Captain Smollett, 'this is the island we have
been looking for. Tonight you can drink some rum.'
The men were happy and they cheered. The Captain
went to his cabin with Squire Trelawney and Dr Livesey. I
followed them and knocked on the cabin door.
'Sir, I have something to tell you,' I said to Squire
Trelawney. Then I told them what Long John Silver had
said.
Squire Trelawney looked surprised. I do not think he
believed me. Captain Smollett was not surprised. He
believed me immediately.
'So,' said Captain Smollett, 'we have a crew of pirates.
Silver is a pirate who sailed with Flint. Silver hired this
crew. They are waiting to take over the ship. They will try
to murder us. How many men will help us?'
'I brought three of my servants with me,' said Squire
Trelawney. 'There are four of us in this cabin. That makes
seven of us against nineteen pirates. We must make care-
ful plans.'
27
==End of OCR for page 15==
==Start of OCR for page 16==
6
Murder
The next morning the Hispaniola stopped in a bay. The
ship was anchored close to the shore and Captain
Smollett looked at the island through a telescope. He also
looked at the treasure map.
I had seen the map. I knew the tall hill on the island
was called Spy-Glass Hill. I knew that there was an old
wooden building called a stockade near the shore. But I
could not see the stockade when I looked at the island.
Sailors had built the stockade many years ago while they
repaired their ship.
All morning the men were restless. They did not obey
the Captain's orders quickly. Captain Smollett watched
the crew carefully. Only Long John Silver was happy.
'I'll let some men go ashore this afternoon,' said
Captain Smollett. 'I'll fire a gun half an hour before
sundown. That will be the time to return.'
The Captain waited to see how many men wanted to
go ashore. He wanted to see how many men would go
with Silver. And he wanted to see how many men would
stay with Livesey, Trelawney and himself. Many of the
men wanted to go with Silver. They thought that they
would find the treasure on the island immediately. They
wanted to go ashore at once.
I wanted to go ashore too. I knew it was dangerous.
But I had been at sea for a month. I wanted to feel the
land under my feet.
I did not tell Dr Livesey and Squire Trelawney that I
was going. I climbed into one of the small boats with the
28
men. There were six men in one boat and seven in the
other. Silver was in the other boat. He was feeding his
parrot.
'Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!' the parrot screamed.
Long John Silver did not see me until we were close to
the shore.
'Jim, Jim!' I heard Silver call. 'Stay with me on the
island, Jim.'
But I didn't listen. I jumped out of the boat and ran up
the beach. I ran straight ahead. There were trees in front
of me. I ran through the trees and the thick bushes.
There were strange flowers and plants everywhere.
There were brightly coloured birds and insects. Some-
times I could see Spy-Glass Hill above the trees. Most of
the time the trees hid the sky. I walked and walked. I did
not know where I was going. I was lost in the jungle.
I must have walked in a circle because I heard voices
ahead of me. I heard Long John Silver's voice. I moved
forward slowly and hid in the trees.
'Join us, Tom,' Silver was saying to another man. 'All
the crew are working together in this. You will be alone.'
'I'll not join you,' said Tom. 'I'll not join a crew of
pirates. We're not all thieves and murderers like you. I'm
not alone.'
Just then there was a scream. A man gave a terrible cry
and frightened birds flew up into the air.
'What was that?' asked Tom.
'That was Alan,' said Silver. 'Alan didn't want to join
us either.'
'And you've killed him,' said Tom. He was angry and
afraid. 'You've killed him like a dog. And you'll have to
kill me too, if you can.'
29
==End of OCR for page 16==
==Start of OCR for page 17==
[Illustration: In a jungle setting, a man, Tom, argues with Long John Silver, who leans on his crutch. Another man lies dead on the ground behind a bush.]
'I'll not join you,' said Tom. 'I'll not join a crew of pirates.'
Tom turned and walked away from Long John Silver.
Silver was quick. He leant against a tree. He lifted his
crutch and threw it at Tom like a spear. The crutch hit
the man in the back. Tom fell down.
Quickly, Silver jumped forwards on his one leg. A
knife was in his hand. He jumped on Tom. He stabbed
the knife into Tom's back. Once. Twice. Tom did not
move again.
I was horrified. I had seen a murder. I could not move.
I had liked Long John Silver. Now I had seen him kill a
man.

7
The Man on the Island
After a few moments I turned and ran away. I had to get
away from the dead man and the murderer.
Then I stopped running. Once again I was afraid. I
knew I was not alone. There was someone else in the trees.
It was a man – the strangest man I had ever seen. I stared
at him.
The man came towards me slowly. He had long white
hair and a long beard. His clothes were torn and ragged.
He wore a leather belt round his waist.
'Who are you?' I asked quietly. I was ready to run away
from this strange man.
'I'm Ben Gunn,' the man replied, 'and I haven't spoken
to a man for three years. I was marooned.'
Marooned! Left alone to die on this island! I had
heard that pirates sometimes marooned men on islands.
31
==End of OCR for page 17==
==Start of OCR for page 18==
[Illustration: A boy, Jim Hawkins, meets a wild-looking man with long hair and ragged clothes, Ben Gunn, in the jungle.]
'I'm Ben Gunn,' the man said, 'and I haven't spoken to a
man for three years. I was marooned.'
'You're still alive!' I said. 'How have you managed to
live?'
'I eat fruit and catch fish,' said Ben Gunn. 'And every
night I dream of eating cheese. But tell me – what's your
name?'
'Jim,' I said.
'And who's with you?'
'No one,' I replied, 'but I was with a man called Long
John Silver a short time ago.'
'Long John Silver!' said Ben Gunn. 'I know Silver. We
were on Flint's ship together. Flint buried his treasure on
this island.'
'Yes, I know,' I said.
'They left me here.'
'Who left you here?' I asked. 'Why did they leave you?'
'Flint's men left me here,' he said. 'After Flint died we
came back to the island. Flint's men wanted to find the
treasure. I said I knew where the treasure was. But I didn't
know. So they marooned me here.'
Ben Gunn's eyes were bright and staring. He looked
mad.
'Now, will you take me home?' asked Ben Gunn. 'I'll
make you rich. And I've got a boat. It's here. I'll show
you. I'll show you my boat.'
I looked towards the place where Ben Gunn was point-
ing. But I did not go to the boat. Suddenly there was the
loud sound of a cannon shot. It was still two hours before
sundown. This was not the captain's signal to return to
the Hispaniola. Why was the cannon firing? Now there
was the sound of more shooting.
'The pirates have begun to fight,' I said. And I ran
back through the jungle towards the noise.
33
==End of OCR for page 18==
==Start of OCR for page 19==
8
The Stockade
Dr Livesey Continues the Story
I am Dr Livesey. I am writing this part of the story. I am
writing about what happened when Jim Hawkins went to
the island on his own.
Thirteen men went ashore in two boats. I stayed on the
Hispaniola with Captain Smollett and Squire Trelawney. I
saw the boats reach the shore. I saw Jim Hawkins run into
the trees on the island. I was surprised. He had not told us
where he was going.
The Captain and I looked at the treasure map again.
The map showed a small wooden stockade on the island. I
told Captain Smollett and Squire Trelawney that I had a
plan.
'Let us take guns and food to the stockade,' I said. 'We
will be safer on the island than on the ship. Also, there is
water to drink in the stockade.'
'Yes, let us go to the island,' said Squire Trelawney.
'Long John Silver is on the island with twelve men. There
are six of his men on the ship. If we wait, they will all
attack us here. We will be safer in the stockade on the
island.'
We began to load food, muskets and pistols into a
small boat. The ship had three boats. Silver and his men
had taken two of them. We used the third one. There
were six of us – Squire Trelawney, his three servants,
Captain Smollett and me.
Silver's men stayed on board the Hispaniola. The six
34
men watched us as we got ready to leave.
Captain Smollett and I each had two pistols. Silver's
men moved towards us.
'Stay back,' I said. I pointed my pistols at them. 'Keep
away.'
The six men watched us as we loaded the small boat.
They did not know what to do. They did not come near
us. They watched.
When the boat was full, Captain Smollett told us to
get in. Squire Trelawney got in the boat. Then his three
servants followed him and so did I.
Captain Smollett spoke to Silver's men left on the ship.
'We are leaving the Hispaniola,' he said. 'Do any of you
want to join us?'
After a moment, one of the six men moved forward.
'I'll join you,' he said. 'I'm not a pirate.'
The pirate next to him had a knife. There was a short
fight, but the man got into our boat. He had a deep cut
on his cheek and blood ran down his face.
We pushed the small boat away from the Hispaniola.
Now there were seven of us in that small boat. We also
carried food and guns. There was too much in the boat.
We rowed the boat slowly towards the shore.
'They're going to fire the cannon at us!' Captain
Smollett shouted.
I looked back at the ship. The men on the Hispaniola
were aiming the cannon at us.
'Give me a musket,' said Squire Trelawney. 'I'll shoot
one of them.'
Squire Trelawney stood up in the boat. He aimed the
long musket at the men on the ship. He fired.
One of the men on the ship cried out and fell down,
35
==End of OCR for page 19==
==Start of OCR for page 20==
but the others aimed the cannon at us. When the cannon
fired, we all tried to lie down in the boat. The shot from
the cannon missed us. But our small boat moved danger-
ously from side to side.
Water came over the side of the boat. The little boat
was so heavy that it sank.
'Save the guns! Save the gunpowder!' shouted Captain
Smollett. 'Save as much as you can!'
The water was not deep and we were near the shore.
So we walked to the island.
We carried the guns and the barrels of gunpowder high
above our heads to keep them dry. Most of our food was
lost, but we saved the guns.
'Go to the stockade!' shouted the Captain. 'Go to the
stockade. Quickly!'
The wooden stockade was not far from the shore. It
had a low wall around it. The wall was made from the
trunks of trees. In the centre of the stockade there was a
wooden cabin.
We had almost reached the gate of the stockade when
seven men ran out of the jungle.
They were Silver's men - pirates. They had guns and
cutlasses.
Squire Trelawney fired a pistol at the men. One of
them fell. The others ran back into the jungle and fired
their guns at us.
One of Squire Trelawney's men was hit in the chest
and fell down. We pulled him into the stockade and
closed the gate.
I looked at the man. He was dead.
The pirates on the ship fired the cannon at the stock-
ade. They missed, but they made a lot of noise.
36
[Illustration: A group of men are attacked by pirates emerging from the jungle. One man fires a pistol at the attackers.]
Squire Trelawney fired a pistol at the pirates. They ran back
into the jungle and fired their guns at us.
==End of OCR for page 20==
==Start of OCR for page 21==
Captain Smollett had brought the ship's log. He wrote
down what had happened.

[Image of an open log book with handwritten text.]
Today I, Alexander Smollett, captain of
the Hispaniola, David Livesey (ship's doctor),
John Trelawney (owner), his three servants
and one sailor, came ashore on Treasure Island.
We are in the stockade on the island. Pirates
are all around us. One servant has been shot
dead. The cabin boy, Jim Hawkins, is
somewhere on the island. Pirates have
our ship.

Suddenly I heard a shout outside. I looked out of the
cabin and saw Jim Hawkins climbing over the wall of the
stockade.
38
9
The Fight with the Pirates
Jim Hawkins Continues the Story
I left Ben Gunn as soon as I heard the cannon on the
Hispaniola firing. I ran towards the sound of the guns
firing from the stockade. I did not know where the stock-
ade was, but I followed the noise.
The cannon fired again. A cannon ball landed in the
jungle near me. I stopped running.
Ben Gunn ran up to me and held my arm. 'Your friends
are in the stockade,' he said. 'I want to meet them. Bring
them to me. I will help.'
Another cannon ball fell near us. We both ran away
and Ben Gunn disappeared into the jungle.
For an hour, cannon balls crashed into the jungle. I
slowly went towards the shore. I saw the Hispaniola firing
its cannons at the stockade.
The Hispaniola had a new flag. The flag was the Jolly
Roger – a black flag with a white skull and crossbones. It
was the pirate flag!
At last the ship stopped firing its cannons. Quickly, I
ran towards the stockade.
I shouted to the men inside – 'Don't shoot! It's Jim!'
And I climbed the wooden wall.
Dr Livesey came out of the cabin to meet me. I told
him my story. I told him about Ben Gunn. I told him that
Ben Gunn wanted to help us.
'But I think he's mad, sir,' I said at the end of my tale.
'He was marooned on this island for three years,' said
39
==End of OCR for page 21==
==Start of OCR for page 22==
Dr Livesey. 'I'm not surprised he's mad.'
At sundown we buried Squire Trelawney's servant in
the sand. Then we slept. But each of us stayed awake for
part of the night to watch for pirates.
I was woken by a voice calling 'Don't fire! I have a
flag of truce!' It was Long John Silver's voice.
Silver stood outside the stockade. He was leaning on
his crutch and he carried a white flag in his hand.

[Illustration: Long John Silver, leaning on his crutch and holding a white flag, stands outside a wooden stockade wall talking to the men inside.]

40
Captain Smollett spoke to us. 'Don't fire,' he said. 'But
don't come out of the cabin.' Then he walked to the gate
of the stockade.
'What do you want, Silver?' Captain Smollett called out.
'I don't want to hurt you,' Long John Silver called
back. 'I want the treasure. I want the treasure map.'
'You won't get it,' Captain Smollett shouted.
'Then you won't get out of this stockade alive,' said
Silver. 'Give me the map and I'll let you live.'
'All I'll give you is one minute to get out of here,'
shouted Captain Smollett. 'Then I'll start firing.'
'You'll be dead in an hour,' Silver shouted. Then he
turned and went back into the jungle.
'Get ready for an attack,' Captain Smollett said. We
loaded the muskets. We stood by the windows of the
cabin. We did not have long to wait.
Soon musket shots cracked out from the jungle. The
pirates fired on us from three sides. They fired over the
low walls of the stockade. We kept our heads down.
Suddenly a group of seven men jumped over the low
wall of the stockade and ran towards the cabin.
We fired our muskets at them. Two of the pirates were
shot dead. A third pirate was wounded and fell to the
ground. But four of them reached the cabin. They had
cutlasses and pistols.
One of the men kicked open the cabin door. He swung
his sharp cutlass at us. I jumped out of his way. A cutlass
can cut off a man's head. Two more pirates came through
the open door. Now there were three of them inside the
cabin.
41
==End of OCR for page 22==
==Start of OCR for page 23==
A pirate pulled a musket out of Dr Livesey's hands. He
hit one of Squire Trelawney's servants on the side of the
head. The poor man fell to the ground. Blood came from
his nose and mouth.
I picked up a cutlass and started to fight. A pirate tried
to hit my head but Captain Smollett killed him with his
cutlass. The Squire shot another man with his pistol.
Dr Livesey ran outside. A pirate had climbed on the
roof of the cabin. He was trying to fire at us from above.
Dr Livesey swung a musket at the man's legs and knocked
him off the roof.
There was smoke everywhere from the pistols and
muskets. Men shouted and screamed.
Then suddenly the fight was over. I stood alone in the
smoke. There was a strange silence. The pirates had run
back to the jungle. We had won the first fight.
Another of Squire Trelawney's servants was dead.
Captain Smollett was wounded. There were four of us left
standing by the cabin. There were four dead pirates on
the ground.
We waited, but the pirates did not come back that day.
We made a meal and buried the dead men. By evening we
felt safer. But we knew the pirates would come back. If we
waited, they would attack us again and again.
Then I thought of a plan. It was a dangerous plan. I
did not want to tell the others about it. I was sure they
would think the plan was too dangerous.
I said nothing to the others. I waited until sundown. I
put two pistols and a sharp knife in my belt. When it was
dark, I climbed over the wall of the stockade. No one saw
me leave.
42
10
Ben Gunn's Boat
I went back to the place where I had met Ben Gunn. He
had pointed to the shore and said – 'I have a boat.' Now I
wanted to find that boat.
The moon was shining brightly. I quickly went down
to the shore. The Hispaniola was anchored out in the bay.
I was not afraid of the pirates. I could see and hear
them. They had made a big fire on the beach. They were
drinking rum and laughing. They were sitting by the fire.
Soon I found the place where Ben Gunn had hidden
his boat. But Ben Gunn's boat was small. It was only big
enough for one man. Inside the boat was a paddle.
I carried the boat down to the beach and put it in the
water. I paddled the boat out into the bay. I paddled to-
wards the Hispaniola.
Quietly I stopped beside the Hispaniola. I could hear
voices. Men were laughing and joking. Were they drunk?
Where were they?
I took out my sharp knife and started to cut the ship's
anchor rope. This was my plan. I wanted to cut through
the anchor rope. Then the sea would carry the ship away.
The ship would drift onto the shore at another part of the
island. Then the pirates would not know where the ship
was. They would not be able to leave the island. If I could
cut the rope, the ship would drift.
But the rope was very thick. I worked slowly. It took a
long time. Slowly the rope came apart.
A gentle wind was blowing and the ship moved. The
rope broke. The ship was free of its anchor. The ship began
43
==End of OCR for page 23==
==Start of OCR for page 24==
to drift away from the bay.
I heard shouts from the Hispaniola. Suddenly I was
afraid. Had the men on board seen me? I pulled out one of
the pistols which I had in my belt.
No. The men had not seen me. There was the sound of
fighting on the ship. I wanted to see what was happening.
I still held the anchor rope. The ship was drifting and
pulling me along.
I climbed up the rope and looked through a window in
the side of the ship. Two men with red faces were fighting
in a cabin. They were drunk.

[Illustration: Through a ship's window, two pirates are seen fighting inside a cabin.]

44
Quickly I climbed back down into Ben Gunn's boat.
Now the Hispaniola was drifting across the sea. I moved
along beside the ship in my small boat.
I tried to paddle back to Treasure Island. But the wind
was too strong. It was blowing me away from the island.
At last, I could not paddle any more. I was too tired. I
lay down in the small boat and I slept. I dreamt of home
and the old Admiral Benbow Inn.
Sunlight woke me up. I saw the Hispaniola not far away.
It was drifting towards me. My small boat was moving up
and down in the water.
The ship moved past me. I paddled towards it. The
anchor rope hung down from the back of the ship. I took
hold of the rope.
Suddenly the wind blew strongly and the Hispaniola
turned round. Water came over the sides of my small boat
and the boat began to sink. I was still holding the ship's
anchor rope. In a few seconds my boat had sunk. I had
nowhere else to go. So I pulled myself up onto the deck of
the Hispaniola.

11
Aboard the Hispaniola
There were two men on the deck of the Hispaniola. One
of them was dead. He had a knife in his chest and he lay
in a pool of blood. The other man was sitting near the
ship's wheel. His face was white and he was wounded.
These were the men I had seen fighting.
The man by the ship's wheel said, 'Rum. Give me a
drink of rum.'
45
==End of OCR for page 24==
==Start of OCR for page 25==
I went to the galley and found a bottle of rum. Two
more dead pirates were lying in there. I took a drink to
the man on the deck.
'Thanks, boy,' said the wounded sailor. 'Where are we
heading?'
I looked across the sea. I could see Treasure Island.
The ship had drifted north in the night.
'I can see the island,' I said. 'I will steer the Hispaniola
onto the north shore. The wind is blowing that way. I will
run the ship onto the sandy beach.'
I went to the ship's wheel. I had not steered the ship
before, but I had seen how it was done. Treasure Island lay
ahead. I had to keep the ship moving straight ahead. I
tried to keep the ship moving towards the north shore of
the island. The pirates were on the south shore of the
island. I tried to steer straight for the beach.
All the time the wounded pirate watched me. After a
while he came slowly across the deck towards me.
'I'll help you,' he said.
He pointed to a sandy beach in a bay. 'Take the ship
into that bay,' he said. 'The water is shallow because the
tide is out. The Hispaniola will stay on the sand. When
the tide comes in the water will get deeper. Then the ship
will float off the sand.'
I did as he told me and steered for the beach. I tried to
watch him too. The pirate was wounded, but he was still
dangerous.
We had almost reached the shore when the pirate
stood up. He had a knife in his hand. He moved towards
me swinging his knife. I had a pair of pistols in my belt. I
took out a pistol and pointed it at him.
'Don't come any closer,' I said, 'or I'll shoot.'
46
The pirate smiled and moved forward. I closed my eyes
and fired the pistol.
Nothing happened.
The pirate laughed and came towards me. I knew he
was going to kill me.
At that moment the Hispaniola ran onto the beach and
stopped suddenly. The pirate and I fell onto the deck.
I jumped up quickly. Where could I run? Where could
I hide? There was nowhere to go – except up!
I started to climb the ropes of the mainmast.
The pirate threw his knife, but it did not hit me. I
climbed up the mainmast quickly. I was very afraid.

[Illustration: A boy climbs the rigging of a ship's mast while a pirate on the deck below prepares to throw a knife at him. The pirate flag (Jolly Roger) flies from the mast.]

47
==End of OCR for page 25==
==Start of OCR for page 26==
The pirate picked up his knife and started to climb
after me. I took out my second pistol and pointed it at
him. He laughed. Then he threw the knife. I felt a terrible
pain in my left shoulder. The knife had gone through my
shoulder and into the mainmast. Hot blood ran down my
arm. I fired the pistol. This time there was a loud crack.
The pirate turned slowly and fell into the sea. I had
shot him in the chest.
I pulled at the knife which held me to the mast. The
wound was not bad. But it was painful and there was a lot
of blood.
I climbed back down onto the deck and looked at the
island. The ship was not moving. It would stay on the
beach without an anchor. I hoped the ship would float
again. We needed it to return home.
The Hispaniola was no longer a pirate ship. I pulled
down the Jolly Roger – the pirate flag.
Now I had to go back to the stockade. I climbed off
the ship and onto the beach. I started to walk to the
south of the island.
48
12
The Pirates' Prisoner
It was a long walk. I walked all day. Many times I stopped
to rest. At last I came to the place where I had met Ben
Gunn. I knew the stockade was close.
The sun went down and night came. I moved forward
slowly. I did not want to meet the pirates.
There were no lights in the stockade. I climbed the
wall of the stockade carefully and slowly I went towards
the cabin.
I fell over a man's leg. I woke someone up. Suddenly, a
loud voice came out of the darkness.
'Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!'
'Who's there?' shouted a voice.
It was the voice of Long John Silver.
The pirates were in the stockade! I was their prisoner!
They lit a fire. Then Long John Silver spoke to me.
'Your friends have left you,' he said.
'Where are they?' I asked.
'I don't know,' replied Silver. 'Dr Livesey shouted to
me. He said that the ship had gone. He said that they
didn't want to fight any more. He made peace with us.
Then he and the others left the stockade. They don't
want you with them, Jim.'
I did not know what to think. I had left my friends in
the stockade. I had not told them where I was going. But
did they think I was a friend of the pirates now!
'I don't know if I believe you,' I said to Silver. 'But I
know I'm your prisoner.'
'But we're friends, Jim,' he said. 'We're in this together.'
49
==End of OCR for page 26==
==Start of OCR for page 27==
I looked around the stockade. The other pirates had
moved away from us. They were talking to each other and
looking at Silver and me.
'The men aren't happy,' said Silver. 'There's trouble
coming. But I've got the map. Dr Livesey gave me the
map. Why did he do that, do you think?'
I did not have time to think. The other pirates came
across the stockade towards us. They stood together in
front of Silver.
'Me and the lads have been talking,' said one of them.
'Have you?' said Silver.
'Yes,' the other pirate went on. 'And we don't want you
as our captain.'
'Do you think it was me who lost the ship?' asked
Silver.
'This voyage to find Flint's treasure has been unlucky,'
said a pirate.
'Unlucky!' Silver stood up and leant on his crutch. 'Is
this unlucky?'
He held up the treasure map in front of the pirates.
'The treasure is no good to us. We've got no ship,' said
a pirate.
'There's another ship coming, lads,' said Silver. 'Squire
Trelawney chartered a second ship. If he doesn't return in
two months, a second ship will come to look for him.'
The men looked at each other. They did not know
what to say now.
'The first thing we'll do is get the treasure,' said Silver.
'We'll go and find it early tomorrow morning.'
The men went away and talked together. They seemed
happy now. Soon they lay down and went to sleep. Silver
and I did the same.
50
In the morning we heard Dr Livesey's voice. 'Silver, I've
come to see the wounded men, as we agreed,' he said.
When he saw me, Dr Livesey was surprised.
'Jim! What are you doing here?' he said.
I looked at Silver. 'I must speak to the Doctor,' I said.
'Be careful, Jim,' said Silver. 'You're with me now,
remember.'
What did the Doctor think of me? I had left him and
my friends in the stockade. I walked slowly to the Doctor.
'Where did you go?' asked the Doctor in a quiet voice.
'I went to the Hispaniola,' I whispered quickly. 'The
ship is at the north end of the island.'
The Doctor went and looked at the wounded pirates.
Then he got ready to go. But before he left, he whispered
to me, 'I've found Ben Gunn.'

13
The Search for the Treasure
After Dr Livesey had left, I ate breakfast with the pirates.
'We'll get that treasure, lads,' Silver said to the pirates.
'We'll each have some of that treasure. We'll share it out
among us. Now, let's go.'
We all went off to find the treasure. The men carried
picks and shovels to dig it up. Silver and I walked in front
of the men.
'You'll not try to run away, will you, Jim?' asked Silver.
But, before I could answer, he put a rope round my
neck. He pulled me along like a dog.
51
==End of OCR for page 27==
==Start of OCR for page 28==
Silver looked at the treasure map. He read out the
directions.
'Tall tree. Spy-Glass Hill. North by north-east. Ten feet.'
So we were looking for a tall tree on Spy-Glass Hill.
We knew the hill was the highest part of the island.
It was not a long walk, but the hill was very steep. By
midday we were tired. We rested before we climbed to the
top of Spy-Glass Hill.
One of the pirates walked a little way ahead of us.
Suddenly he shouted out – 'Look, lads, here!'
We all ran forward.
'Have you found the treasure?' one pirate asked.
We came round some bushes and saw white bones. A
skeleton of a man lay on the ground. Its bony fingers
pointed up the hill.
'It's one of Flint's men,' said Silver. 'It's one of the men
that helped him bury the treasure.'
'Aye,' said another pirate. 'Flint took six men with him
to bury the treasure. But only Flint came back. Flint killed
them all.'
'And Flint's dead,' said Silver. 'He can't hurt you now.
Come on. We're nearly at the top of the hill.'
The other pirates looked at each other. They were
afraid. But they went on walking up the hill.
We rested again before the top of the hill. Up ahead
we could see three tall trees. One tree stood higher than
the rest.
'That's the tree,' said a pirate. 'We'll find the treasure
near it.'
'The treasure is ours,' said another pirate. 'Let's dig it
up.'
'Let's stop and eat first,' said Silver. 'Digging up treasure
52
is hard work.'
'I don't want to stop here,' said a pirate. 'This is Flint's
place. And Flint was an evil man.'
'He's dead,' said Silver.
The men spoke in quiet voices. They looked around
them. They were afraid.
Suddenly we heard a strange, high voice. It sang the
pirate song.
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest -
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum!
The pirates were very frightened now. Their faces went
white.
'It's Flint!' cried one of them.
'He's come to kill us!' cried another.
'I know that voice,' said Silver. 'It's not Flint's voice.
Come on. Let's go and see.'
The other pirates would not move.
'It's Flint, I tell you. We're all going to die.'
'It's not Flint,' said Silver. 'I know that voice – it's Ben
Gunn!'
Silver pulled at the rope round my neck. We went up
to the top of the hill.
'Seven hundred thousand pounds in gold,' said Silver.
'It's here. I know it's here.'
He pulled at my rope. The other pirates ran forward.
They shouted to each other. Then they stopped.
Near the tall tree was a big hole in the ground. It was a
wide, deep hole. I knew at once that the treasure had
been buried here. But the hole was empty.
The pirates jumped into the hole. They started digging
with their picks and shovels. Silver stood beside me at the
edge of the hole. He gave me a pistol.
53
==End of OCR for page 28==
==Start of OCR for page 29==
[Illustration: A group of pirates stand around a large, empty hole in the ground near a tall tree. One pirate is in the hole, digging.]
Near the tall tree was a big hole in the ground. But the hole was empty.
'Here, take this pistol, Jim,' he said. 'There's trouble
coming. Watch out.'
One of the pirates found two gold coins. He held them
up for everyone to see.
'I've found two gold coins,' he shouted at Silver. 'Two
gold coins! Where's the seven hundred thousand pounds?
Where's Flint's treasure?'
The pirates jumped out of the hole. They stood in front
of us. They were mad with anger.
'We'll kill you,' shouted one of them. 'Come on, lads.
Kill them both. Kill the liar with one leg. Kill the boy
too.'
Silver and I aimed our pistols at the pirates. Just then,
three musket shots cracked out from the trees. Two of the
pirates fell to the ground. Silver fired his pistol. The other
pirates ran away.
Dr Livesey, Squire Trelawney and Ben Gunn came out
of the trees. They held muskets in their hands.
'Thank you, Doctor,' Silver said to Dr Livesey. 'You
came at the right time.'
'Come quickly,' said the Doctor. 'The pirates will come
back. We must take their boats. We must get back to the
Hispaniola.'
We walked back to the beach near the stockade as
quickly as we could. As we walked, Dr Livesey told us the
story of the treasure.
'Ben Gunn found Flint's treasure while he was alone
on the island. He dug it up. The treasure was in a large
chest. Ben Gunn took the treasure out of the chest. He
carried it to the north of the island. It took a long time.
The treasure is safe in a cave now.'
55
==End of OCR for page 29==
==Start of OCR for page 30==
14
Flint's Treasure
We went to the boats near the stockade. Then we rowed
round to the north of the island. The sun went down into
the sea. It had been a long day and I was very tired.
Captain Smollett had floated the Hispaniola off the
beach at high tide. He had anchored the ship again in the
deep water of the north bay.
We all went to Ben Gunn's cave. We made a big fire
and cooked a meal. The bright light of the fire shone on
hundreds of gold coins. The gold coins were Captain
Flint's treasure.
'So, that is Flint's treasure,' said Long John Silver.
'Seven hundred thousand pounds. Many men have died
for that money.'
I was silent. I stared at the gold. Yes, men had died for
the money. Silver had killed some of them himself.
The next day we began to carry the gold to the
Hispaniola. There were Spanish pieces of eight and also
English, French and Portuguese coins.
Day after day, the work went on. We watched for the
pirates, but we did not see them.
There was food and drink at the stockade. We also left
food at Ben Gunn's cave. We were going to leave the
pirates on the island. But they would have plenty of food.
As soon as all the gold was loaded on the ship, we left the
island. We were a small crew and everyone had to work
very hard. Silver cooked the food in the galley. He had
brought his parrot back from the stockade. The parrot sat
in its cage in the galley.
56
[Illustration: Inside a cave, a group of men gather around a large, open treasure chest overflowing with gold coins.]
The bright light of the fire shone on hundreds of gold coins.
The gold coins were Captain Flint's treasure.
==End of OCR for page 30==
==Start of OCR for page 31==
'Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!' screamed the parrot.
We sailed the ship round to the south of the island.
We saw three pirates standing on the beach. We sailed as
close to them as we could.
'Don't leave us!' cried the pirates. 'Don't leave us here
to die!'
Dr Livesey called to them. He told them about Ben
Gunn's cave. He told them there was food in the cave and
in the stockade.
We sailed north into the Gulf of Mexico. When we
reached land, we anchored the ship. There were many
trees growing near the coast. Small boats came out from
the shore and the Indians brought us fruit and water.
There was an English ship nearby. Captain Smollett,
Squire Trelawney, Dr Livesey and I rowed over to the ship
in one of the small boats. We told our story to the ship's
captain.
When we returned to the Hispaniola, Silver was gone.
He had taken the other small boat and three thousand
pounds. He was a pirate, a murderer and thief. But I had
liked the man.
We never saw or heard of him again.
In England we shared the treasure. We each had some of
the money. Captain Smollett bought himself a house on
the coast. From there he could see ships sailing to all parts
of the world. Squire Trelawney was now a very rich man.
He went back to live in the big white house on the hill.
Dr Livesey became a wealthy doctor in London. Ben
Gunn spent his money in three weeks and became a
beggar.
58
My mother and I bought a fine, large inn and had
many servants. The rest of my money paid for me to study.
I did not want any more adventures. I did not want to
go to sea again. But I wanted to write about my adven-
tures. And now you have read my story.
Sometimes I wake up at night. I can hear the sea around
Treasure Island. I can hear the voice of Long John Silver's
parrot, Captain Flint, calling – 'Pieces of eight! Pieces of
eight! Pieces of eight!'
59
==End of OCR for page 31==
==Start of OCR for page 32==
Points for Understanding
1
1 Where do Jim Hawkins and his parents live?
2 Who is the stranger who comes to stay with Jim Hawkins?
What does he bring with him?
3 A second stranger arrives. Why does he come?

2
1 The Captain tells Jim that Flint's men are looking for him.
What do they want?
2 What does Blind Pew do when he comes to the Admiral
Benbow Inn?
3 Why do Jim and his mother run to the village?
4 What do Jim and his mother find in the Captain's sea-chest?
5 How does Blind Pew die?

3
1 Dr Livesey and Squire John Trelawney find something in a
leather packet. What is it?
2 What does Squire Trelawney decide to do?

4
1 Squire Trelawney charters a ship in Bristol. What is the
name of the ship? How many sailors does Trelawney hire?
What is the name of the captain of the ship?
2 What do you learn about Long John Silver in this chapter?
3 What is Jim Hawkins' job on the ship?
4 Who says, 'Pieces of eight. Pieces of eight'?

5
1 I woke up when I heard voices.
(a) Where is Jim?
(b) Who is talking?
(c) What are the voices talking about?
60
2 The Hispaniola arrives at the island. What does Jim do
next?

6
1 How does Jim know about Spy-Glass Hill and the stockade
before he goes to the island?
2 How many men go with Silver to the island?
3 What does Jim do?
4 What does Jim see Long John Silver do on the island?

7
1 Who does Jim meet on the island?
2 What do you learn about this person?

8
1 Who tells this part of the story?
2 How many men go with Captain Smollett, Squire
Trelawney and Dr Livesey to the island?
3 Why does their boat sink?
4 What happens when they get to the stockade?

9
1 Long John Silver comes to the stockade with a white flag.
Why does he do this?
2 What happens after Long John Silver leaves the stockade?
3 What does Jim do after it gets dark?

10
1 How does Jim get to the Hispaniola?
2 What is Jim's plan?
3 Jim climbs up a rope and looks through a window in the
side of the Hispaniola. What does he see?
4 Jim falls asleep. What happens when he wakes up the next
morning?
61
==End of OCR for page 32==
==Start of OCR for page 33==
11
1 The wounded pirate says, 'Take the ship into that bay.'
Why does the pirate tell Jim to do this?
2 The pirate wounds Jim in the shoulder. How does the pirate
do this?
3 What happens when Jim fires the second pistol?

12
1 When he gets back to the stockade, Jim gets a surprise.
Why?
2 The men went away and talked together. They seemed
happy now. Why do the men seem happy now?
3 Why does Dr Livesey come to the stockade?
4 What does Jim tell Dr Livesey? What does Dr Livesey tell
Jim?

13
1 How does Silver stop Jim running away?
2 While the pirates are climbing Spy-Glass Hill:
(a) What do they see?
(b) What do they hear?
3 What do the pirates find at the top of Spy-Glass Hill?
4 Who stops the pirates from killing Long John Silver and
Jim?

14
1 Where is Flint's treasure?
2 What is Flint's treasure?
3 What happens to each of these people?
(a) Long John Silver
(b) Captain Smollett
(c) Dr Livesey
(d) Ben Gunn
(e) Jim Hawkins
62
==End of OCR for page 33==
==Start of OCR for page 34==
Published by Macmillan Heinemann ELT
Between Towns Road, Oxford OX4 3PP
Macmillan Heinemann ELT is an imprint of
Macmillan Publishers Limited
Companies and representatives throughout the world
Heinemann is a registered trademark of Harcourt Education, used under licence.
ISBN 978-1-4050-7284-7
This retold version by Stephen Colbourn for Macmillan Readers
First published 1993
Text © Stephen Colbourn 1993, 1998, 2002, 2005
Design and illustration © Macmillan Publishers Limited 1998, 2002, 2005
This edition first published 2005
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form, or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without
the prior written permission of the publishers.
Illustrated by Victor Ambrus
Original cover template design by Jackie Hill
Cover photography by Alamy/Patrick Eden
Printed in Egypt by Sahara printing co.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
12 11 10 9 8
==End of OCR for page 34==
==Start of OCR for page 35==
ELEMENTARY
Treasure Island
'Sometimes I wake up at night. I can hear the sea
around Treasure Island. I can hear the voice of Long
John Silver's parrot calling – "Pieces of eight! Pieces
of eight!"'
Jim Hawkins tells the story of the journey on the ship,
the Hispaniola, to Treasure Island. And he tells of the
battle with the pirates to get Captain Flint's gold.
• A Picture Dictionary of difficult vocabulary
• Notes about the life of Robert Louis Stevenson
• Notes about the story
• Points for Understanding comprehension questions
• Free resources including worksheets, tests and author
data sheets at www.macmillanenglish.com/readers
المركز القومي للمناهج والبحث التربوي
حقوق التوزيع في جمهورية السودان محفوظة لوزارة التعليم العام
MACMILLAN READERS
This series provides a wide variety of enjoyable reading
material for all learners of English. Macmillan Readers
are retold versions of popular classic and contemporary
titles as well as specially written stories, published at
six levels.
1 Starter
2 Beginner
3 Elementary
4 Pre-intermediate
5 Intermediate
6 Upper
BRITISH ENGLISH
COMMON EUROPEAN FRAMEWORK
A2
MACMILLAN
Essential
DICTIONARY
Use your Macmillan
Essential Dictionary
TREASURE ISLAND
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
MACMILLAN
Treasure Island
Robert Louis Stevenson
A NCCER, Ministry of General Education programme in partnership with Macmillan Education
المركز القومي للمناهج والبحث التربوي
MACMILLAN READERS
==End of OCR for page 35==