==Start of OCR for page 1==
Things Fall Apart
Chinua Achebe
A NCCER, Ministry of General Education programme in partnership with Macmillan Education
MACMILLAN READERS
مركز القومي للمناهج والمبحث
هفت المرضية
==End of OCR for page 1==
---
==Start of OCR for page 2==
HEINEMANN ELT GUIDED READERS
INTERMEDIATE LEVEL
CHINUA ACHEBE
Things Fall Apart
Retold by John Davey
HEINEMANN ELT
==End of OCR for page 2==
---
==Start of OCR for page 3==
HEINEMANN ELT GUIDED READERS
INTERMEDIATE LEVEL
Series Editor: John Milne
The Heinemann Elt Guided Readers provide a choice of enjoyable read-
ing material for learners of English. The series is published at five
levels Starter, Beginner, Elementary, Intermediate and Upper.
At Intermediate Level, the control of content and language has the
following main features:
Information Control
Information which is vital to the understanding of the story is
presented in an easily assimilated manner and is repeated when
necessary. Difficult allusion and metaphor are avoided and cultural
backgrounds are made explicit.
Structure Control
Most of the structures used in the Readers will be familiar to students
who have completed an elementary course of English. Other gram-
matical features may occur, but their use is made clear through
context and reinforcement. This ensures that the reading, as well as
being enjoyable, provides a continual learning situation for the
students. Sentences are limited in most cases to a maximum of three
clauses and within sentences there is a balanced use of simple adverbial and
adjectival phrases. Great care is taken with pronoun reference.
Vocabulary Control
There is a basic vocabulary of approximately 1,600 words. Help is given to
the students in the form of illustrations, which are closely
related to the text.
Glossary
Some difficult words and phrases in this book are important for
understanding the story. Some of these words are explained in the
story, some are shown in the pictures, and others are marked with a
number like this ... Words with a number are explained in the
Glossary on page 92.
Contents
A Note About This Story
The People in This Story
4
5
1 Okonkwo
7
2 Ikemefuna Comes to Umuofia
10
3 Ikemefuna Finds his Best Friend
13
4 The Week of Peace
15
5 The Wrestling Match
18
6 Ikemefuna is to Go Home
23
7 The Death of Ikemefuna
25
8 Okonkwo Talks to a Friend
29
9
Ezinma's Illness
32
10
Ezinma Goes Away
35
11 The Cave of Agbala
37
12 The Funeral of Ezeudu
40
13 Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
44
14 News Comes from Umuofia
49
15 The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
53
16 The Missionaries Build a Church
58
17 Nwoye Leaves His Home
61
18 Some New Converts
62
19 The Death of a Holy Snake
66
20 Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
68
21 The Rule of the White Man Grows
72
22 Okonkwo is Put in Prison
76
23 Okonkwo Kills a Messenger
80
24 The Death of Okonkwo
83
Points for Understanding
87
Glossary
92
List of titles at Intermediate Level
95
==End of OCR for page 3==
---
==Start of OCR for page 4==
A Note About This Story
This is a story about life in Africa before the Europeans came,
and about the destruction of this life by the Europeans.
The people in the story lived in a district of Nigeria called
Umuofia. The people of Umuofia were farmers. They produced
goods, such as palm oil, that the Europeans wanted.
Umuofia was a small district of nine villages. The people of
these villages belonged to the same clan. A clan is a group of
people who live together and share the same customs¹. In time
of war, all the people of the clan helped each other and fought
together.
The religion of these people was not Christianity. The
clansmen had many different gods. Some of the gods were very
important. One of the most important gods protected the crops,
and she was called the Earth Goddess. Some of the gods belonged
to a man's family and wooden figures of these gods were kept
in one of the family huts. The clan believed that their customs
pleased the gods, and they believed their gods would punish
people who broke these customs.
The people of Umuofia did not know much about the rest of
the world. They grew their own food and made their own things.
The clan had its own customs, religion and leaders. The way of
life in Umuofia had not changed for a long time, but the people
were free. They made their own decisions and they chose their
own leaders. In Umuofia, a man could become a leader as a result
of his own work and ability.

The People in This Story
Okonkwo a famous man in Umuofia
Unoka Okonkwo's father
Nwoye Okonkwo's eldest son
Ikemefuna a boy from another clan
Ekwefi Okonkwo's second wife
Ojiugo Okonkwo's third and youngest wife
Ezinma Okonkwo's daughter
Obierika Okonkwo's closest friend
Ezeudu the oldest man in Umuofia
Uchendu Okonkwo's uncle from Mbanta
Mr Kiaga head of the church in Mbanta
Chielo the priestess of the God, Agbala
Mr Brown the first English missionary in Umuofia
Mr Smith the second English missionary in Umuofia
The District Commissioner the English administrator of the district
4
5
==End of OCR for page 4==
---
==Start of OCR for page 5==
1
Okonkwo
Okonkwo lived in a small village called Iguedo, in the district
of Umuofia. There were nine villages in Umuofia.
Okonkwo was well-known by everyone in the other eight
villages near his home and even by people living a long way
away.
Okonkwo first became famous when he was a young man.
At eighteen years old, Okonkwo fought the best wrestler in all
Umuofia and he won the match. He put the other man flat on his
back on the floor. And everyone was proud of Okonkwo.
7
==End of OCR for page 5==
---
==Start of OCR for page 6==
Okonkwo
Okonkwo was now nearly forty years old. His fame had grown
like a bush fire and he was very famous indeed. He was tall and
big and he walked like someone with springs in his feet. He
had thick black eyebrows over his eyes. His nose was wide. If
you did not know Okonkwo, and if you just looked at him,
you would think he was a serious man and not very kind to
people.
Sometimes Okonkwo would be very angry. When he was
angry, Okonkwo could not say what he wanted to say. So he used
his hands instead of words, and he hit people.
Okonkwo's father died ten years ago. His father was called
Unoka. Unoka was a very lazy person and he did not like work.
He did not like seeing blood and he was afraid of fighting.
Unoka had been poor all his life because he never saved any
money.
When Unoka had some money he always spent it on lots of
palm wine. He asked all his friends to come to his hut and drink
the wine with him. They used to have a very happy time, sitting
in a circle, drinking and singing songs. He was a sad-looking man
and only seemed to be happy when he was making music. Music
made Unoka very happy.
Okonkwo was ashamed of his father. Okonkwo hated men
who were lazy. And, as he was strong and brave, he hated men
who were afraid of fighting in battles and wars.
When Unoka died, he left nothing for his wife and children.
Okonkwo wanted to be strong and rich and powerful but he began
with nothing. In the village it was not important who your father
was. People knew that Okonkwo could do great things.
A few years later, Okonkwo had married three wives. He
owned a large farm and he had a large compound with a thick
wall of red earth round it.
Okonkwo's hut was built behind the only gate in the red walls
of the compound. Each of his three wives had her own hut. Two
barns were at one end of the compound, and they were full of
8
Okonkwo
yams. At the other end of the compound there was a shed for
the goats and each wife had built a small hut for some chickens
near her own hut.
There was a special house near the barns. Okonkwo kept the
wooden figures of his family gods in this house. It was the family
shrine and Okonkwo often went there to pray for himself and his
family and to give gifts to his gods.
Okonkwo had become one of the greatest men in Umuofia at
that time. Everyone in his clan respected him because he was not
like his father.
MEDICINE HOUSE
YAM BARNS
OKONKWO'S HUT
HUTS OF OKONKWO'S THREE WIVES
==End of OCR for page 6==
---
==Start of OCR for page 7==
2
Ikemefuna Comes to Umuofia
The night was dark and silent. The moon was not shining and
there were no happy children playing in the fields. It was
quiet everywhere. The people were afraid of the dark and they
kept inside their huts.
Okonkwo had gone to bed and had blown out the palm oil
lamp. But just before he went to sleep the silence was suddenly
broken.
Okonkwo lay in bed and heard the sound of a gong being
hit by the town-crier. This man was crying out his message and
hitting the gong hard.
The town-crier was asking every man in all the nine villages in
Umuofia to go to the market-place in the morning. Okonkwo
10
Ikemefuna Comes to Umuofia
knew from the man's voice that something was wrong. The
meeting in the market-place was going to be important. Okonkwo
listened while the town-crier's voice became quieter and quieter
in the distance.
Okonkwo guessed the meeting would be about a war with a
neighbouring clan. But he was not afraid of this. In the last war
he was the first man to bring a human head home. That was the
fifth human head Okonkwo had captured. So war did not frighten
him. Okonkwo would go to the meeting and find out if his guess
was correct or not.
In the morning, the market-place was full of people. There
were about ten thousand men waiting, and they were all talking
quietly. Then one man, who was a good speaker, shouted out,
'Umuofia kwenu' which means 'We all greet you, Umuofia'. And
everyone shouted back the answer 'Yaa', which means 'Umuofia
thanks you for the greeting'.
The speaker shouted out four times. For the first time he faced
the north; for the second, the east; then the south; and for the last
time he faced the west.
There was complete silence. Everyone listened. The man
who was speaking touched his white hair with his hand, and
he stroked his white beard. And then he shouted, 'Umuofia
kwenu' for the fifth time. And again ten thousand men shouted
back 'Yaa'.
Then suddenly the man pointed his left hand towards
Mbaino, which was a town not far away. As he pointed, he
started speaking through closed teeth.
The wild people of Mbaino have killed a young woman who
lived here in Umuofia,' he said.
The crowd became angry, but everybody stood still. And
in a calm, clear voice the speaker told the people what
had happened. He told them that the wife of Ogbuefi had
gone to the market at Mbaino and had been killed there by
some men.
11
==End of OCR for page 7==
---
==Start of OCR for page 8==
Ikemefuna Comes to Umuofia
The husband of the dead woman was sitting in the crowd. He
was listening and he looked sad. Everyone in the crowd felt very
angry with the people of Mbaino.
After a lot of talking, the crowd at the meeting decided to
send Okonkwo to Mbaino. Okonkwo would give the people of
Mbaino a choice of two things. They could choose to go to war
with Umuofia or they could give a young man and a young woman
to the clan.
All the other districts were afraid of going to war with
Umuofia, because Umuofia was very powerful and strong. If
ever there was a quarrel between another district and the district
of Umuofia, the other district would first try to come to a peaceful
agreement.
The people of Mbaino did not want to go to war. So they sent
a young man and a young woman back with Okonkwo.
Two days later, Okonkwo returned to Umuofia with a boy
of fifteen and a young woman. The young woman was given to
Ogbuefi, the man whose wife had been killed. Soon Ogbuefi
married the young woman.
The boy, called Ikemefuna, was given to Okonkwo. Everyone
agreed that Okonkwo was the best man to take care of
the boy.
Okonkwo took Ikemefuna home and gave him to his first
wife.
This boy belongs to the clan. So look after him,' Okonkwo
told her.
'Will he stay with us for a long time?" she asked her husband.
'Do what you are told, woman,' Okonkwo shouted.
So Okonkwo's first wife asked no more questions and took
Ikemefuna to her hut.
12
3
Ikemefuna Finds his Best Friend
When Ikemefuna first arrived in Okonkwo's house, he was very,
very frightened. He did not know where he was. He
did not know why he was in Umuofia. He did not know the young
woman who came with him from Mbaino, or where she had gone. And
he certainly did not know that his own father had killed the woman
from Umuofia.
Ikemefuna only knew that one day some men had come to
his house and had talked with his father. After they had finished
talking, the men had taken Ikemefuna outside and given him to
a strange man. Ikemefuna's mother had cried a lot when he left,
but he had not cried. He had been too surprised by what was
happening.
In the first few days at Umuofia, Ikemefuna was very
frightened and unhappy and lonely. Once or twice he tried to
run away but he did not know where to run to. He often thought
of his mother and his younger sister. And when he thought of
them, he cried a lot. But Okonkwo's first wife was very kind to
him and she treated Ikemefuna like one of her own children.
At first Ikemefuna was very quiet and spoke very little. When
he did speak, all he said was, 'When shall I go home?" He did not
eat any of the food he was given. Okonkwo was very angry when
he heard that Ikemefuna would not eat. One day Okonkwo came
into the hut with a big stick in his hand. He stood over Ikemefuna
with the stick. Ikemefuna shook with fright. He was so frightened
that he ate his yam. He did not want to be beaten by Okonkwo.
Okonkwo left the hut after Ikemefuna had eaten all his food.
As soon as Okonkwo had left, Ikemefuna went outside and was
sick. He was ill for three weeks and Okonkwo's first wife looked
after him.
13
==End of OCR for page 8==
---
==Start of OCR for page 9==
Ikemefuna Finds his Best Friend
When Ikemefuna was better, he seemed to be happier and
not so frightened. He was beginning to get used to his new
home and he was finding some new friends. He did not cry
so often and he did not think of his mother and his sister so
much. In his new family, Ikemefuna found a real friend. His
name was Nwoye, and he was the eldest son of Okonkwo and
his first wife.
Okonkwo thought that Nwoye was very lazy and he was afraid
that Nwoye would grow up to be like his grandfather, Unoka. So
Okonkwo kept beating Nwoye and telling him what to do. Nwoye
became a sad-looking boy. Like his mother and his sisters, Nwoye
was very frightened of his father.
So when Ikemefuna arrived, Nwoye was very happy to have
someone to play with him and to talk to him. Ikemefuna, too,
was very pleased to find another young boy of his own age
in the family. After some time, Nwoye and Ikemefuna became
good friends and they were like two brothers. The two boys went
everywhere together.
Nwoye was two years younger than Ikemefuna, and he
followed Ikemefuna everywhere. Nwoye thought that Ikemefuna
knew everything. Ikemefuna knew the names of all the birds.
He could make traps to catch the little animals which came
out of the forest. And he knew lots of stories which he told
Nwoye.
Even Okonkwo liked Ikemefuna. But of course he did not
let anyone know this. Okonkwo never let anyone see that
he was kind. He always had to show people that he was
strong and powerful. So Okonkwo treated Ikemefuna in the
same way as he treated his other children like a very
strict father. In fact, Ikemefuna called Okonkwo 'Father'.
Sometimes Okonkwo let Ikemefuna carry his stool and his
goatskin bags when he went to a big, important meal. This
made Ikemefuna feel very proud. He felt like a real son of
Okonkwo.
14
4
The Week of Peace
Every year in Umuofia the people kept a Week of Peace.
This was always the week before the people planted their
yams. The Week of Peace was the one week in the year when
everyone had to be kind to each other. No one was allowed to
fight anyone else. Husbands were not allowed to beat their wives
or their children. But Okonkwo broke the peace.
One day during the Week of Peace, Okonkwo came home
early in the afternoon. He sat and waited for his meal to be
brought to him. His third wife, his youngest wife, called Ojiugo,
was to cook that day. But Ojiugo was not at home.
That morning she had gone to see a friend and had not
come back in time to cook the food. Okonkwo waited for
15
==End of OCR for page 9==
---
==Start of OCR for page 10==
The Week of Peace
his food. It did not come, and he was feeling hungry. So
he went to his wife's hut. She was not there. And the fire
was cold.
'Where is Ojiugo?" Okonkwo asked his second wife.
'She has gone to see a friend,' she replied.
Okonkwo bit his lips and became angry.
Okonkwo went back to his own hut and waited for Ojiugo
to come home. When she came back, he beat her very hard. He
was so angry that he forgot it was the Week of Peace. Okonkwo's
first two wives ran out of their huts and asked him to stop beating
his youngest wife. Okonkwo's neighbours heard Ojiugo crying
loudly and they came to see what was happening.
Nobody had broken the Week of Peace for many, many years.
Soon everybody in the village knew that Okonkwo had beaten
his wife. Before darkness came, Ezeani, the priest of the Earth
Goddess, came to see Okonkwo.
Okonkwo greeted Ezeani and invited him into his hut.
Okonkwo offered him some kola-nutslo to eat.
'Take away your kola-nuts,' said Ezeani in a sharp voice. I
shall not eat in the house of a man who does not respect our gods. 1
have not come on a friendly visit to see you. I have come to punish
you because you have broken the Week of Peace.'
Okonkwo told Ezeani the priest that his third wife had not
come home and had not cooked his dinner. He told the priest
this was the reason he had beaten her. But Ezeani did not listen.
Instead, he told Okonkwo to listen to him.
'Listen to me,' he said to Okonkwo. 'You are not a stranger in
Umuofia. You know that we must keep a Week of Peace before
we plant any crops. In that week we must live in peace with our
neighbours and our family.'
Ezeani paused and looked at Okonkwo. Then he went on.
'We must not hurt anyone,' continued Ezeani, 'and we must
be kind to everybody. Then the Earth Goddess will protect the
crops for us and they will grow well.'
16
The Week of Peace
Okonkwo sat and listened and said nothing, so Ezeani
continued talking.
'Okonkwo, you have done an evil thing. You have beaten
your wife in the Week of Peace. Your wife was not good because
she stayed away from home, but you should not have beaten her.
'Your evil can hurt the whole clan,' continued Ezeani. 'The
Earth Goddess may not help us and our crops may not grow well.
Then we will all die of hunger.
'You must do something to please the Earth Goddess,' Ezeani
said to Okonkwo. 'You must take to the shrine of the Earth
Goddess one goat, one hen, a long piece of cloth, and one
hundred cowrie shells12.'
When Ezeani finished speaking, he got up and left the hut.
So the next day, Okonkwo visited the shrine of the Earth
Goddess. He brought with him everything Ezeani had said.
17
==End of OCR for page 10==
---
==Start of OCR for page 11==
The Wrestling Match
Okonkwo hoped the Goddess would forgive him for beating
his third wife. Okonkwo was really very sorry about what he had
done. He knew he had done wrong. But because he had to show
everyone that he was strong, Okonkwo did not tell anyone that he
was sorry.
The rest of the clan knew that Okonkwo had taken the gifts
to the Earth Goddess, but they wondered if he was really sorry.
They did not think Okonkwo really respected the gods of the
clan. If anyone respected the gods, he would fear them and do
what they told him. Okonkwo said he respected the gods, but
he never showed the people that he was sorry.
In the past, men who broke the Week of Peace were often
killed. They were kicked around the streets until they died. The
clansmen thought that Okonkwo was very lucky to get such an
easy punishment for doing such an evil thing. Okonkwo had been
lucky. Now he seemed to think that he was better than the gods.
Okonkwo was a very proud man indeed.
5
The Wrestling Match
On the first day of the New Year, every family always cooked large
meals and invited friends to eat with them. But the second day of
the New Year was always the day for the big
wrestling match. Most people did not know which of these two days
they liked better. But Okonkwo's second wife, whose name was
Ekwefi, liked the day of wrestling more than the day of feasting.
Ekwefi was always happy when she saw wrestling matches
because she always remembered the match when she first saw
Okonkwo.
Ekwefi had been a very beautiful young girl. She had fallen in
18
The Wrestling Match
love with Okonkwo as soon as she saw him at the wrestling match.
She had not married Okonkwo then because he was too poor. But
a few years later, Ekwefi had run away and had gone to live with
Okonkwo.
All this happened many years ago. Ekwefi was now forty-five
years old. But she still loved watching wrestling matches and this
day she was feeling very excited.
It was nearly midday on the second day of the New Year.
Ekwefi and her only daughter, Ezinma, were sitting by the fire.
They were cooking the dinner.
Suddenly they heard the sound of the drums in the distance.
The drums told everyone that the wrestling match would soon
begin. The drumming came from the direction of the village
playground. The wind brought the sound of the drums to
Okonkwo's compound. The drumming was quick and happy.
Okonkwo began to move his feet to the beat of the drums.
Like Ekwefi, Okonkwo became very excited. Okonkwo and
his family walked to the playground. Nearly everybody in the
village was there the men, the women and the children. All
the people stood round in a circle. The centre of the playground
was empty. The old men and the important men in the village
sat on stools brought by their own children. Okonkwo sat on
the stool Ikemefuna had carried for him. Everybody else was
standing up.
The wrestlers were not at the playground yet and everyone
was listening to the drummers. There were three drummers and
they sat in front of the circle of people who were watching. The
three men had seven drums in a long wooden basket. They were
beating the drums with sticks, moving from one drum to another
one very quickly.
At last, the two teams of wrestlers danced into the circle. The
crowd shouted as loud as they could and they clapped their hands
hand together. The noise of the drums got louder and the people
pushed forward. They wanted to see everything.
19
==End of OCR for page 11==
---
==Start of OCR for page 12==
The Wrestling Match
The wrestling match started with boys who were fifteen or
sixteen years old. There were only three boys in each team. They
were not good wrestlers. The first two matches were finished very
quickly. But the third match made everyone shout with great joy.
One of the boys moved very quickly. He moved so quickly that
nobody had time to see what was happening. Almost immediately
the other boy was flat on his back on the ground. The crowd
jumped up and down and shouted and clapped. They made so
much noise that no one could hear the drummers beating their
drums.
Okonkwo was so excited that he jumped to his feet and sat
down again. Three young boys ran towards the boy who had
won. His name was Maduka and he was the son of Obierika,
Okonkwo's friend. The three boys picked Maduka up and carried
him on their shoulders through the cheering crowd.
Then the drummers stopped and had a short rest. They
wanted a rest before the start of the important matches. Their
bodies shone with sweat. They were very hot indeed.
When the drummers had rested and were ready again, they
picked up their sticks and began to drum loudly. It was the time
for the men to wrestle now. The two teams stood facing each
other across the empty circle. Then one young man from one
team danced across the centre of the circle to the other side.
He pointed to one person in the other team who he wanted to
fight. Then they both danced back to the centre and came close
together to start wrestling.
There were twelve men on each side and each side took it in
turns to ask another person to fight. The last match was between
the two leaders of the two teams. These two men were the two
best wrestlers in all the nine villages in Umuofia. Everyone in the
crowd wondered which man would win.
When this last match began it was getting dark. The sun
had gone down. The drummers beat their drums wildly and the
crowd shouted and cheered as loud as they could. Everyone was
20
The third match made everyone shout with joy.
==End of OCR for page 12==
---
==Start of OCR for page 13==
The Wrestling Match
so excited that they pushed nearer the centre of the circle and
nobody could keep them back.
The crowd knew these two wrestlers. They had seen these two
men fight in a wrestling match the year before. In that match they
were equal and neither of the men was thrown on the ground.
Everyone wondered if the same thing would happen again.
One of the wrestlers, called Ikezue, held out his right hand.
The other man, called Okafa, grabbed Ikezue's hand and they
came close together. It was an exciting match. Ikezue tried to
put his right heel behind Okafa to push him over backwards. But
Okafa was waiting for this. The two men held each other tightly.
The muscles in their arms and on their backs stood out. The fight
looked equal again.
At that moment, Ikezue bent down quickly on one knee. He
tried to throw Okafa backwards over his head. But this was a
wrong thing to do. It was a bad mistake. Okafa suddenly raised
his right leg and he put it over Ikezue's head. Then he pushed
Ikezue down on to the ground with all his strength. Ikezue fell flat
on his back.
Okafa was the winner. The crowd cheered loudly and the
people who had wanted Okafa to win ran towards him. They
picked Okafa up and put him on their shoulders and carried
him home. On the way to their village they sang happily and
the young girls clapped their hands. Everyone was very pleased
and they were proud of Okafa. The New Year had begun happily
for them all.
22
6
Ikemefuna is to Go Home
Ikemefuna lived with Okonkwo and his family for three years,
and the leaders of the clan seemed to have forgotten about him.
Ikemefuna was now a young man of eighteen and he was
tall and strong and very lively. He was very happy living with
Okonkwo's family and he was like a real elder brother to Nwoye.
Ikemefuna and Nwoye were great friends and they spent most of
the time with each other. Nwoye felt grown up when he was with
Ikemefuna.
Both Ikemefuna and Nwoye sat with Okonkwo in his own
hut. They thought they were too old to sit with Nwoye's mother
and sister. Sometimes Nwoye's mother asked Nwoye to find wood
for her or to do some other job. When his mother wanted Nwoye,
Nwoye would pretend to be angry. He would complain about
women and the trouble they made for men.
Okonkwo was very pleased with Nwoye as he seemed to be
becoming a strong young man. Okonkwo knew that Ikemefuna
had helped change Nwoye from a weak boy into a strong
young man.
Okonkwo was very proud of both boys. He wanted Nwoye to
be a strong man. He wanted him to be a man who could look after
Okonkwo's family when Okonkwo was dead. Okonkwo wanted
Nwoye to be rich, with enough food to feed his own family. So
he was very happy to hear Nwoye complain about women. This
showed that when Nwoye was older he would be able to control
his family, and especially his wives.
Okonkwo often asked the two boys to sit with him in his hut
and he told them stories about Umuofia. These stories were true
and they were about fighting and war. Nwoye listened to the
stories and knew that he ought to like them. But secretly he still
23
==End of OCR for page 13==
---
==Start of OCR for page 14==
Ikemefuna is to Go Home
liked the stories his mother used to tell him when he was young.
His mother's stories were not about fighting and wars but
about animals and birds. Nwoye knew these stories were for stupid
women and children and he knew that his father wanted him to be
a man. So Nwoye pretended to like the stories his father told him.
Then Okonkwo was happy and he did not beat Nwoye any more.
One day, Okonkwo was sitting in his hut with Ikemefuna
and Nwoye. He was eating some food and drinking palm wine.
Suddenly his friend, Ogbuefi Ezeudu, came into the hut.
Ezeudu was the oldest man in that part of Umuofia. He was
a very brave man and everyone respected him. Okonkwo offered
Ezeudu some food, but he would not take any. Ezeudu asked
Okonkwo to go outside the hut as he wanted to tell him
something. The two men walked outside so the two boys could
not hear them talking. Ezeudu spoke.
'That boy, Ikemefuna, calls you "Father". Do not help to kill
him,' said Ezeudu to Okonkwo.
Okonkwo was very surprised to hear these words. He was
going to speak, when Ezeudu spoke again.
'Yes,' said Ezeudu, 'Umuofia has decided to kill Ikemefuna.
Our clan god, the Oracle of the Hills and the Caves, has said he
must be killed. The people will take Ikemefuna outside Umuofia
and they will kill him there.'
Okonkwo did not speak, so Ezeudu continued.
'But you must not help kill Ikemefuna,' said Ezeudu. 'He calls
you "Father" and you must not help to kill him. If you help kill him
the Oracle will not be pleased.'
Early the next day, a group of important men from all the
nine villages in Umuofia went to Okonkwo's house. They sent
Ikemefuna and Nwoye out of the hut. Then they spoke quietly
to Okonkwo. These men stayed for only a short time. Then they
left. Okonkwo sat in his hut with his head resting in his hands. He
did not move.
In the afternoon, Okonkwo called Ikemefuna into his hut.
24
The Death of Ikemefuna
Okonkwo told him that the men were going to take him home the
next day. Nwoye cried when he heard that Ikemefuna was going
away. Okonkwo immediately beat Nwoye very hard because he
was crying.
Ikemefuna did not know what to think. He did not really want
to go home. He had forgotten what his home was like. Of course,
he still missed his mother and his sister. Ikemefuna wanted to see
them again. But he felt a little afraid. Ikemefuna felt he was not
going to see either his mother or his sister ever again.
7
The Death of Ikemefuna
The next day, the men returned to Okonkwo's house. They
had a big pot of wine with them. They wore their best clothes.
They looked as if they were going to a big meeting of the clan or on a
visit to another village. These men had bags over their shoulders and
they carried matchets¹4. Okonkwo got ready quickly. They
all left the compound and Ikemefuna carried the pot of wine on
his head.
At first all the men were talking and laughing. But the further
they went, the quieter they became. The sun got hotter and
the birds in the forest began to sing. The only noise was the
bird singing and the sound of men's footsteps on the ground.
Everybody was silent. Ikemefuna wondered why nobody was
talking and he felt a little afraid.
The footpath got very narrow. They were right in the middle
of the forest. The trees were getting bigger and taller. Some were
covered with climbing plants. The forest looked as if nobody
25
==End of OCR for page 14==
---
==Start of OCR for page 15==
The footpath got very narrow. They were right in the
middle of the forest.
The Death of Ikemefuna
had been in it for years and years. The sun shone through the
leaves and the trees and made patterns of light and shade on the
ground.
Ikemefuna heard a man whispering behind him. He turned
round to see who it was. The man was telling the people to
hurry up.
'We still have a long way to go, the man said, 'so we must
hurry.'
Then this man and another one went to the front and started
walking more quickly. Everyone then walked more quickly.
Ikemefuna was in the middle of them all. The men were still
carrying their matchets and Ikemefuna still had the pot of wine
on his head.
At first, Ikemefuna had been frightened. But he was not
frightened any more because Okonkwo was walking right behind
him. Ikemefuna felt safe. Okonkwo was like a real father to him.
Ikemefuna had never liked his own father and he had forgotten
him after three years. But he loved Okonkwo.
Suddenly one of the men walking behind Ikemefuna made a
noise in his throat. Ikemefuna looked round and the man told him
to walk on and not to look back. He spoke in a frightening voice.
His voice made Ikemefuna's whole body go very cold. Ikemefuna
became frightened. His hands shook a little as they held the pot
of wine.
Ikemefuna looked back again quickly. Okonkwo was not
walking behind him now. He was right at the back of the line
of men.
Ikemefuna's legs began to shake. He was afraid to look back
again. The man behind him raised his matchet quietly and quickly
and brought it down on Ikemefuna's head. Okonkwo heard the
matchet hit the pot of wine. The pot fell off Ikemefuna's head and
broke on the ground. Okonkwo heard Ikemefuna cry out.
My father, they have killed me,' Ikemefuna cried.
Ikemefuna ran towards Okonkwo. Okonkwo was very afraid,
27
==End of OCR for page 15==
---
==Start of OCR for page 16==
The Death of Ikemefuna
but he raised his own matchet and brought it down onto
Ikemefuna's head and killed him. Okonkwo did not want to
do this. He was very afraid. And he loved Ikemefuna. But he
was afraid that his friends would think he was weak if he did not
kill Ikemefuna.
The Oracle had said that Ikemefuna had to die. But it had also
said that Okonkwo should not help to kill Ikemefuna. Okonkwo
had broken one of the rules of the clan because he was so proud.
As soon as Okonkwo walked into the house that night, Nwoye
felt and knew that Ikemefuna had been killed. Something deep
down inside him seemed to break. It was like the breaking
of a tight string. Nwoye did not cry, but his whole body
went weak.
He had once felt the same way when he had been much
younger. One day he had been walking through the forest with
his family. It was night and in the darkness they had heard the
sound of a baby crying. The women had stopped talking and they
walked quickly.
Nwoye had heard stories that twin 15 babies brought bad luck
to their parents. So mothers who had twins put the twins into
pots and threw them away into the Evil Forest16. That was the
first time Nwoye had seen this done. He felt cold all over when
he heard the baby crying and he felt frightened too. It was the
feeling you have when you walk alone in the forest at night when
it is very dark.
Nwoye had the same weak feeling now when Okonkwo
walked into the house without Ikemefuna. At that moment,
Nwoye lost his love for his father. Nwoye felt very unhappy and he
felt very, very lonely. His life was now empty. Now he had nobody
to talk to.
28
8
Okonkwo Talks to a Friend
Okonkwo did not eat any food for three days after the death
of Ikemefuna. But he drank palm wine from early in the morning
until late at night. He was very tired and his eyes were
red and angry looking. Okonkwo often called Nwoye into his hut. He
wanted Nwoye to sit with him. But Nwoye was afraid and used to leave
the hut quietly if his father went to sleep.
Okonkwo did not sleep at night time. He tried not to think
about Ikemefuna, but he couldn't stop thinking about him.
One night he couldn't sleep at all so he got up from his bed
and walked around the compound. His legs were very weak and
Okonkwo found it difficult to walk.
He felt very cold and his body shivered!?.
On the third day after Ikemefuna's death, Okonkwo asked his
second wife, Ekwefi, to cook some bananas for him. Ekwefi was
a good cook and she cooked bananas with fish. This was the
way Okonkwo liked them. When the food was ready, Ezinma,
Okonkwo's daughter, took it to him.
'You have not eaten any food for two days, Ezinma said. 'You
must eat all this.'
Ezinma sat down on the ground near Okonkwo, and put her
legs straight out in front of her. Okonkwo ate the food quickly.
He did not enjoy it. He looked at Ezinma who was ten years old.
I wish Ezinma was a boy, Okonkwo said to himself. And he
gave her a piece of his fish.
Go and bring me some cold water to drink,' Okonkwo
told her.
Ezinma ran out of the hut eating the piece of fish, and came
back with a bowl of cool water. Okonkwo took the bowl and drank
the water quickly. He ate some more fish and then pushed the
29
==End of OCR for page 16==
---
==Start of OCR for page 17==
Okonkwo Talks to a Friend
plate away from him. Ezinma took the plate and the bowl and
went back to her mother's hut.
I wish Ezinma were a boy, Okonkwo said to himself again.
Okonkwo then thought about Ikemefuna again and he
shivered. He tried to forget Ikemefuna but he could not do so.
He thought about him all the time.
Why have I become like a shivering old woman? Okonkwo
asked himself. Everybody in all the nine villages knows that I am
a brave man. I have killed five men in battle. Why am I like a weak
woman because I have also killed a young boy? I have become like
a woman.
Thinking these thoughts, Okonkwo jumped to his feet and
went to visit his friend, Obierika. Obierika was sitting under a
tree, in the shade. The two men greeted each other and Obierika
took Okonkwo into his hut.
'I was coming to see you soon,' Obierika said to him.
'Is everything all right?" asked Okonkwo.
'Yes. I am happy because my daughter is going to get married
soon,' replied Obierika.
Just then, Obierika's son, Maduka, came into the hut
Maduka greeted Okonkwo and turned to leave. Okonkwo called
out to him.
'Come and shake hands with me,' Okonkwo said. 'I saw you
wrestling three years ago, when you threw the other boy onto the
ground. You made me very happy.'
Maduka smiled and shook hands with Okonkwo. Then
he left the hut. After he had gone, Okonkwo turned to
Obierika.
'Maduka will be very successful in life,' said Okonkwo. 'If I
had a son like him, I would be very happy.
I am worried about Nwoye,' continued Okonkwo. 'If he
wrestled with a bowl of yams, the bowl of yams would throw him
on the ground. None of my sons is like me. Who will take my place
when I am dead?
30
Okonkwo Talks to a Friend
'If Ezinma were a boy I would be very happy indeed. Ezinma's
ideas about life are good,' said Okonkwo.
'Don't worry about your sons, replied Obierika. 'They are
still very young.
'Nwoye is now fifteen,' said Okonkwo. 'When I was his age, I
was looking after myself. No, my friend, Nwoye is not too young.
He will not change. I have done my best to make him grow into a
man, but he is too much like his mother.'
Obierika thought, Nwoye is too much like his grandfather.
Unoka. But he did not say this to Okonkwo. Instead, he spoke
to Okonkwo about the killing of Ikemefuna.
'I don't understand why you refused to come with us to kill
that boy, Ikemefuna,' Okonkwo said to Obierika.
'Because I didn't want to,' replied Obierika angrily. 'I was
too busy.
'Don't you think that the Oracle was right when it said that
Ikemefuna had to die?" asked Okonkwo.
'I think the Oracle was right,' said Obierika. 'But the Oracle
did not ask me to help kill Ikemefuna.'
'No. Maybe not,' replied Okonkwo. 'But someone had to kill
him. If everyone was afraid of blood, no one would have killed
the boy.'
These words made Obierika very angry. He thought that
Okonkwo was calling him a coward.
You know, Okonkwo,' said Obierika, 'that I am not afraid of
blood. And let me tell you one thing, my friend. If I were you, I
would have stayed at home. I would not have killed Ikemefuna.
What you have done will not please the Earth Goddess. She said
that Ikemefuna had to be killed, but she told you not to help
kill him.'
'The Earth Goddess cannot punish me, replied Okonkwo.
'I did not want to kill Ikemefurna. The Oracle said Ikemefuna
had to die.
'That is true, continued Obierika. "If the Oracle said that my
31
==End of OCR for page 17==
---
==Start of OCR for page 18==
Ezinma's Illness
son must die, I would not disagree with the Oracle. But I would
not kill him myself.'
And so the two men talked about the killing of Ikemefuna for
a long time.
Okonkwo felt better after he had talked to Obierika about the
murder. Okonkwo had been silly. He had done too much thinking
and not enough work. But now he felt happier.
'I must go home and do some work on the farm,' Okonkwo
said. 'I must tap my palm trees and see how they are.'
'Well, goodbye,' said Obierika. 'Come back and see me soon.'
'I shall return very soon as I want to see your brave son,
Maduka, again,' replied Okonkwo.
Then Okonkwo left and went back to his own hut. He felt a
much happier person.
9
Ezinma's Illness
For the first time in three months, Okonkwo slept well. He was
woken up very early in the morning. Somebody was knocking
hard on his door.
'Who is that?" he shouted. It was Ekwefi.
'Ezinma is dying,' she said in a very sad voice.
Okonkwo jumped out of bed quickly, opened the door and ran
to Ekwefi's hut. Ezinma was lying on a mat near a big fire. The fire
had been burning all night. But although Ezinma was near the
fire, she was shivering.
'Ezinma has a fever18, Okonkwo said.
Then Okonkwo picked up his matchet and went into the
forest to cut some leaves and some grasses. With the leaves and
grasses he could make medicine to stop the fever.
32
Ezinma's Illness
Ekwefi knelt down beside Ezinma. She felt the child's head.
It was hot. Ekwefi had only one child and she loved Ezinma very
much. Ekwefi had had ten children and nine had died when they
were still very young. So Ekwefi loved Ezinma very much indeed.
When Ezinma was born she was a weak baby. But everyone
thought she would live. So Ekwefi looked after her very carefully
so that she would become a strong girl. Sometimes Ezinma would
be lively and very healthy. At other times she would be tired
and ill.
Everyone knew that Ezinma was an ogbanje. An ogbanje is a
child that dies many times and returns to its mother to be born
again. An ogbanje child is often healthy one day and ill the next.
Ezinma was like this. But Ezinma had lived longer than most
ogbanje children. Perhaps she had decided to stay alive. Ekwefi
began to believe that Ezinma would not die.
An ogbanje child is joined to the world of the Spirits by a
special kind of stone. If this special stone can be found and can
be destroyed, then the child will live.
A medicine man20 had found Ezinma's stone when she was
nine years old. It was a smooth stone, wrapped in a dirty piece of
cloth. That medicine man was famous in all Umuofia. He knew
everything about ogbanje children and where the special stones
could be dug up. He had found Ezinma's special stone, and he
had dug it up and destroyed it. So Ezinma was not joined to the
world of Spirits any more. Ekwefi had believed that Ezinma could
not die. But now Ekwefi was very frightened. Ezinma was very ill.
Perhaps she would die from her fever.
Okonkwo returned from the forest, carrying a large bundle
of leaves and grasses and roots of trees. These would make good
medicine. He went into Ekwefi's hut.
'Give me a pot,' Okonkwo said to his wife. 'And leave the
child alone.
Okonkwo chose the best leaves and grasses and roots and cut
them up. He put them into the pot. Ekwefi poured some hot water
33
==End of OCR for page 18==
---
==Start of OCR for page 19==
Ezinma's Illness
onto them. She then put the pot on the fire. Okonkwo left her and
went to his own hut.
'Watch the pot carefully,' he told Ekwefi as he was leaving.
'Don't let it boil over. If it does, all the goodness in the leaves and
roots will go.'
So Ekwefi watched the pot very carefully. It did not boil over.
Later, Okonkwo came back to look at the pot. It was ready.
'Bring a small stool and a thick mat, Okonkwo told Ekwefi.
Okonkwo took the pot and put it on the floor by the stool. He
then carefully picked up Ezinma and put her on the stool near the
steaming pot.
Okonkwo threw the thick mat over the top of both Ezinma
34
Ezinma's Goes Away
and the pot. Ezinma tried to get away from the hot, thick steam,
but Okonkwo held her down. She started to cry.
At last the mat was taken away. Ezinma was very wet and very
hot. Ekwefi dried her with a cloth. Then she picked Ezinma up and
put her on a dry mat on the floor. Ezinma was soon fast asleep.
After a few days, Ezinma was better and was walking about.
Ekwefi was very happy. She knew that Ezinma was not going to
die now.
10
Ezinma Goes Away
The night was very, very dark. There was no moon. Ezinma
and her mother, Ekwefi, had finished eating their supper.
They were sitting on a mat on the floor, near a lamp. They could
not see anything without the lamp. It was too dark to do any
work so Ekwefi and Ezinma told stories to each other.
Ezinma was telling a story when she suddenly stopped. She
stopped because she heard a loud high voice shouting in the
distance. It was the voice of Chielo, the priestess of the god
Agbala
Chielo was prophesying. She often prophesied about people.
She told people what was going to happen to them. But tonight
her words were meant for Okonkwo. So everyone in Okonkwo's
family listened carefully.
Agbala do-O-oo! Agbala do-O-oo,' said the voice.
Okonkwo! Agbal eken gio-o-o-o! Agbala cholu ifu ada ya
Ezinma o-o-o-o!'
These words meant that the god, Agbala, wanted to see
Ezinma.
35
==End of OCR for page 19==
---
==Start of OCR for page 20==
Ezinma Goes Away
Okonkwo went outside the hut. Chielo, the priestess, went
into Okonkwo's compound and talked to him.
Chielo told Okonkwo many times that the god, Agbala,
wanted to see Ezinma. Okonkwo replied every time that Ezinma
was asleep and he asked Chielo to come back for Ezinma the next
morning. Chielo took no notice of Okonkwo and still asked for
Ezinma. Okonkwo still asked the priestess to come back the next
morning because Ezinma had been ill and was fast asleep.
Suddenly Chielo screamed out loudly.
'Take care, Okonkwo,' she said. 'Do not ignore the wishes
of Agbala. Is it wise for a man to ignore the wishes of a god?
Take care.'
Usually everyone obeyed Chielo immediately. They did not
ask questions. But Okonkwo wanted to make Chielo wait for
Ezinma. He was not really afraid of Agbala.
Chielo walked straight past Okonkwo and went into Ekwefi's
hut.
'Where is Ezinma?" she asked. 'Agbala wants to see her.'
'Where does Agbala want to see Ezinma?" asked Ekwefi.
'In his house in the hills and the caves,' replied Chielo.
'I will come with you,' said Ekwefi.
'How dare you go to see Agbala unless he asks to see you!' said
the priestess. 'Give me Ezinma.'
Ekwefi gave Ezinma to Chielo.
'Come, my dear,' said Chielo to Ezinma. 'I will carry you on
my back. Then you will not know that the journey is long.'
Ezinma began to cry because she was afraid.
'Don't cry,' said Ekwefi. 'The priestess will bring you back
home soon.
'Don't be afraid,' said Ekwefi again; and she stroked Ezinma's
head.
Then Chielo, the priestess, went down on one knee and
Ezinma climbed onto her back. Ezinma was still crying a little.
'Agbala do-o-o! Agbala ekeneo-0-0-0!' Chielo shouted these
36
The Cave of Agbala
greetings again to her god as she left the hut. Ezinma cried loudly
and called to her mother. The two voices of Ezinma and Chielo
disappeared into the thick darkness of the night.
Ekwefi suddenly felt very weak. She looked in the direction of
the voices. Soon Ekwefi could not hear Ezinma's voice. She heard
only the voice of Chielo, which was getting quieter and quieter in
the distance.
'Why are you standing there looking stupid?" said Okonkwo
to his wife. 'Ezinma hasn't been stolen from you.'
But Ekwefi did not listen to her husband. She stood still for a
short time and then she walked quietly through Okonkwo's hut
and went outside.
'Where are you going?" asked Okonkwo.
'I am going to follow Chielo,' replied Ekwefi. And she walked
out into the darkness. Okonkwo sat down and thought.
11
The Cave of Agbala
The voice of the priestess was getting quieter and quieter.
Ekwefi hurried to the footpath outside the compound and
turned left to follow the voice.
It was a very dark night and Ekwefi could not see anything.
She began to run and she fell down many times. The night was
cold but Ekwefi was hot because she was running.
The priestess was still shouting out in the darkness ahead.
Ekwefi followed Chielo. She did not want to get too close to
Chielo. If Chielo turned round suddenly and saw Ekwefi, she
would be very, very angry. But Ekwefi did not walk very far behind
Chielo because she did not want to lose the priestess.
37
==End of OCR for page 20==
---
==Start of OCR for page 21==
The Cave of Agbala
Suddenly Ezinma sneezed and Ekwefi became happier. She
knew that Ezinma was still alive. And then the priestess suddenly
screamed out.
'Somebody is walking behind me!' shouted the priestess. 'Go
back whoever you are. Agbala will punish you. He will twist your
neck until your head is looking backwards.'
When Ekwefi heard these words she stood still. She was
terrified. She did not know if she ought to go on or to return
home. She waited until the priestess was further ahead and then
she began to follow her again.
At last, Chielo reached the path to the caves.
The priestess walked on and went into the entrance of one of
the caves. This was the home of the god, Agbala.
The entrance to the cave was very small and Ekwefi did not
know how the priestess and Ezinma got through it. Ekwefi stood
outside the cave and started to cry. Tears ran down her face. She
sat down on a large stone and waited. She was not afraid now
because she was sure Ezinma would be all right.
Ekwefi sat and waited for a long time. Suddenly she heard a
noise behind her. She turned round and saw a man standing
there. He had a matchet in his hand. Ekwefi screamed and jumped
to her feet.
'Don't be foolish,' said the man's voice.
It was the voice of Okonkwo. He had followed Ekwefi.
'I thought you were going into the cave after the priestess,' he
said. You would be foolish to do that.'
Ekwefi did not answer her husband. But she was very pleased
to see him. She cried with happiness. Ekwefi knew also that
Ezinma was safe.
'Ekwefi, go home and sleep,' said Okonkwo. 'I will wait here.'
'I will wait here with you,' said Ekwefi. 'It is almost dawn. The
first cock has just crowed.'
So Okonkwo and Ekwefi sat outside the cave and waited.
A few hours later, Chielo, the priestess, crawled out of the
38
The Cave of Agbala
cave on her stomach. She crawled out like a snake. Ezinma was
still on Chielo's back. Chielo looked straight ahead and walked
back to Okonkwo's village. Ekwefi and Okonkwo walked behind
her, at a distance.
Chielo walked into Okonkwo's compound and into Ekwefi's
hut. She went into Ekwefi's bedroom and put Ezinma carefully on
a bed. Then the priestess walked away and said nothing. She did
not speak to anybody.
Ezinma was safely back at home. She was alive and well. Both
Ekwefi and Okonkwo were very happy. They knew Ezinma would
not die now.
39
==End of OCR for page 21==
---
==Start of OCR for page 22==
12
The Funeral of Ezeudu
Go-di-di-go-di-go. Di-go-go-di-go. This was the sound made
by the big drum being beaten.
Diim! Diim! went the big gun as well.
It was early in the morning. It was dark and everyone was still
in bed and fast asleep. But the sound of the drum and the gun
woke everybody up. The men in the villages listened carefully.
They were worried because the drum meant that somebody
was dead.
The sound of the drum went a long way. The way the drum
was beaten gave a message. This drum told everyone in all the
nine villages that somebody had died. The drum beat out the news
and said, 'Umuofia obodo dike', which means "the land of the
brave". "Umuofia obodo dike' it said, many times.
Everyone in the villages listened to the drum and was afraid.
They did not know who was dead.
Then the drum beat the name of the village where the dead
man lived. It was Okonkwo's village. At last, the drummer beat
out the name of the dead man. His name was Ezeudu. As
Okonkwo heard the name of his friend, Ezeudu, he shivered,
Okonkwo remembered the last time the old man had come to
see him. It was the time when Ezeudu had said to Okonkwo, 'That
boy, Ikemefuna, calls you Father. Do not help to kill him.'
Ezeudu was a very important man in the village and so
everyone in the clan was at this funeral. Drummers were
beating the drums of death, and the guns were firing to
show him respect. Men ran about in all directions. They cut
down every tree they could see and killed every animal they
found. They jumped over walls and danced on the roofs. As
Ezeudu was an important man, he was going to be buried
40
The Funeral of Ezeudu
after dark. A torch of fire was going to be the only light at
the funeral.
Just before Ezeudu was buried, the drummers beat louder and
the men jumped up and down into the air. Some people were
firing guns. Okonkwo had brought an old gun with him and
he was waving it high in the air. The drums beat and the men
danced. They all became very excited. Guns fired the last shots
before Ezeudu was buried. The noise was very great.
Then suddenly, a cry of pain and shouts of fear came from the
centre of all the noise. Everyone became silent immediately. A
young boy lay dead in the centre of the crowd. He lay in a pool
of blood. The young boy was one of the sons of the dead man,
Ezeudu. He was only sixteen years old.
The young boy had been dancing with his brothers in the last
dance for his father. Okonkwo's gun had exploded²¹ by accident
and a piece of iron from the gun had gone into the boy's heart and
killed him.
Nobody knew what to do. Everybody ran about in all direc-
tions. Everybody was afraid. All the clan had seen a lot of death
and murder in Umuofia. But this killing was the most terrible
thing that had ever happened.
As soon as Okonkwo knew that he had killed the boy, he knew
what he had to do. He had to leave Umuofia and leave the clan.
Okonkwo had committed a crime 22 against the Earth Goddess
because he had killed another person in the clan.
There were two kinds of crime against the Earth Goddess.
One was called a male crime. This was when the crime was not an
accident. The other was a female crime. This was when the crime
was an accident. Okonkwo had killed the boy accidentally. As this
was a female crime, Okonkwo would have to leave his own clan
for seven years and go away. After seven years he could return.
On that night, Okonkwo packed up his most valuable things.
His wives and children cried a lot because they were very
unhappy. They did not want to leave Umuofia. Okonkwo's
41
==End of OCR for page 22==
---
==Start of OCR for page 23==
A young boy lay dead in the centre of the crowd.
The Funeral of Ezeudu
friends came and carried all Okonkwo's yams to Obierika's
barn. Obierika was going to look after the yams while Okonkwo
was away.
Before daylight came, Okonkwo and his family left his village
in Umuofia. They were going to his mother's village, a long way
away. His mother's village was called Mbanta.
After the sun came up, many of Ezeudu's friends came to
Okonkwo's compound. They wore special war clothes. These
men set fire to Okonkwo's huts. They knocked down the red wall.
They killed all his animals and they knocked down his barn. They
destroyed everything that Okonkwo owned.
The men were punishing Okonkwo for killing Ezeudu's son.
The Earth Goddess had told them to destroy everything in
Okonkwo's compound. These men still liked Okonkwo. They
were only cleaning the land which Okonkwo had made dirty with
the blood of a young boy in the clan.
Obierika, Okonkwo's friend, was one of the men who
destroyed Okonkwo's compound. After the men had destroyed
everything, Obierika sat down and thought about his friend.
Obierika was sad. He asked himself why any man had to leave
his own home because he had killed somebody by accident. But
Okonkwo had committed a crime against the clan and the Earth
Goddess had to punish him.
43
==End of OCR for page 23==
---
==Start of OCR for page 24==
13
Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
Okonkwo reached Mbanta safely with his three wives and
eleven children. When he got there all his mother's family
were pleased to see him. Okonkwo was met by his uncle,
Uchendu. Uchendu was one of the oldest men in the family
and he told Okonkwo that he was welcome to stay in Mbanta.
As soon as Uchendu met Okonkwo, he saw that Okonkwo
was unhappy. Uchendu guessed that Okonkwo and his family had
been sent away from Umuofia and he did not ask any questions.
The next day, Okonkwo told Uchendu that he had acciden
tally killed a boy at Ezeudu's funeral. Okonkwo had to leave
Umuofia for seven years.
Okonkwo's uncle listened to the story and he said nothing
until Okonkwo had finished.
Then Uchendu spoke.
'Your crime is not too serious since it is a female crime,' said
Uchendu. 'So you must not be too sad.'
Uchendu gave Okonkwo a piece of ground where he could
build a new compound. Okonkwo was also given two or three
pieces of land to grow crops on. Okonkwo built a hut for himself
and three huts for his wives. Then he put a wooden figure of his
own god in his hut.
Uchendu had five sons. Each son gave Okonkwo three hun
dred yam seeds to plant on the land. It was nearly time for the rain
to come, so Okonkwo was ready to plant the yam seeds.
At last the rain came. It came very suddenly and it was very
heavy. Before the rain started all the grass was brown and burnt
The ground felt like burning coal when you walked on it with
your bare feet. Then suddenly the thunder came. It was noisy and
sounded like sheets of metal being banged together.
44
Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
A very strong wind blew and the palm trees moved backwards
and forwards. When the rain started it came like small pieces of
ice. These pieces hurt your body when they hit you. The young
boys and girls ran about happily. They picked up the pieces of ice
and put them in their mouths. The ice melted in their mouths and
made the children feel cool.
The birds began to sing and the trees and plants woke up
again. It had not rained for many months. Everyone was happy
and pleased that the rain had come at last. It was time to plant the
yam seeds once more.
Okonkwo and his family worked very hard. But Okonkwo was not
a young man any more. When he was young he had liked his work
very much, but now he did not. He did not think that work was a
pleasure any more. When he was not working, he sat in silence
and was half asleep.
All his life, Okonkwo had one very big wish. He wanted to
become one of the leaders of his own clan. He had had this wish
since he was a young man. He still wanted this more than anything
else, but now this wish was not possible. Okonkwo would never
be a leader of his clan. He had been sent away from Umuofia.
When he returned to Umuofia after seven years, he would never
be chosen as a leader.
Uchendu saw that Okonkwo was unhappy and miserable so
he decided to talk to Okonkwo about his life. He wanted to make
Okonkwo happier.
So one day Uchendu called together his sons, his daughters
and Okonkwo. The men sat on mats on the floor and the women
sat on mats made of grass. Uchendu pulled his beard gently. Then
he began to speak. He spoke quietly and slowly and he chose his
words carefully.
45
==End of OCR for page 24==
---
==Start of OCR for page 25==
Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
I want really to speak to Okonkwo,' Uchendu said. 'But I
want all of you to listen to me. I am an old man and you are all
young. I know more about the world than any of you. If you think
that you know more than me, then say so now.'
Uchendu stopped talking and waited. Nobody spoke, so
Uchendu continued.
'Why is Okonkwo here today with us?" Uchendu asked. 'Our
clan is not his clan. We are only his mother's relations. Okonkwo
doesn't belong here. He has been sent away from Umuofia for
seven years and he has come to live in a strange country. Because
of this Okonkwo is very, very unhappy. But I want to ask him a
question.'
Then Uchendu stopped and looked at Okonkwo.
'We all know that a man is head of his family,' said Uchendu.
'A man's wives do what he tells them to do. A child belongs to
his father and his father's family. A child does not belong to his
mother and her family. A man belongs to the country that his
father comes from. He does not belong to the country that his
mother comes from.'
'I know that this is true,' said Okonkwo.
'Then here is a question,' said Uchendu. 'Why do we often give
our children the name "Nneka"? This word, "Nneka", means
"Mother is most important of all". Why do we say "Mother is most
important of all" when a child belongs to his father and a man to
his father's country? Why do we say that?"
There was silence. Nobody spoke.
'I want Okonkwo to answer this question,' said Uchendu.
'I do not know the answer,' replied Okonkwo.
'You do not know the answer,' said Uchendu. 'So you see you
are like a child. You have many wives and many children. You
have more children than I have. You were an important man in
your clan. But you are still like a child.'
Uchendu continued talking to Okonkwo.
'Now listen to me and I will tell you the answer,' said
46
Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
Uchendu. 'But before I tell you, I want you to answer one more
question. And this is the question: when a woman dies she is taken
home to be buried with her own clan. She is not buried with her
husband's clan. Why is this?"
Okonkwo shook his head because he did not know the
answer.
Okonkwo doesn't know the answer,' said Uchendu. 'He
doesn't know the answers to my two questions.
Then Uchendu turned to talk to his sons and daughters.
Can any of you answer my questions?" Uchendu asked.
None of them could answer, so they shook their heads also.
Then listen to me,' replied Uchendu. 'It's true that a
child belongs to his father's country when everything in his
life is happy. But when life is bad and unhappy, he goes to
47
==End of OCR for page 25==
---
==Start of OCR for page 26==
Okonkwo Arrives in Mbanta
his mother's country to be comforted. His mother is there
to take care of him. She is buried there. And that is the
reason for the idea that a "Mother is most important of
all".'
Uchendu went on talking.
'Is it good, Okonkwo,' asked Uchendu, 'that when you came
back to your mother's country, you should come with a sad face?
You have made your mother unhappy and you won't let anyone
comfort you. You should comfort your wives and your children
while you are here, and then take them all back to Umuofia
with you after seven years. But if you are unhappy all the time,
you will die of unhappiness. And then who will look after your
family?"
Uchendu stopped talking and waited for a little while. Then
he pointed to his sons and daughters, and spoke to Okonkwo
again.
'These people,' said Uchendu, 'are now your family. You
think you are the most unhappy person in the whole world. You
think you are the unluckiest person in the whole world. Do you
know that sometimes men are sent away from their country for all
their lives? Do you know that some men lose all their yams and
even all their children?
'I had six wives once,' continued Uchendu. 'Now I have
only one young wife and she is stupid. Do you know how
many of my children have died? I have buried twenty-two
children. I did not hang myself and I am still happy and
alive. Other people in the world have troubles. You are not
the only one. You should not walk about looking unhappy
all the time and making other people unhappy too. So think
about your life and yourself. I have no more to say to
you.'
Uchendu was then silent. He got up and left the hut.
Okonkwo sat alone and thought about everything his uncle
had said to him.
48
14
News Comes from Umuofia
After a year or more, Obierika, Okonkwo's friend, came from
Umuofia to visit him. Obierika brought two young men.
Each of the men carried a heavy bag on his head. Each bag was
full of cowrie shells for Okonkwo.
Okonkwo was very happy to see his friend. And so were his
wives and children. Then Okonkwo took the three men to meet
Uchendu.
'You are all welcome,' said Uchendu to Obierika and his men.
Then Uchendu offered them all some-kola nuts and palm wine.
The men started to talk about the clans and the villages they
all knew. They talked about the clan at Abame.
Have you heard that nearly all the people in Abame have
been killed?" asked Obierika. 'There is no clan there any more.'
"Why is that?" asked Okonkwo, and everyone else together.
Nearly everybody in Abame has been killed and everything
destroyed,' said Obierika. 'It is a strange and a terrible story to tell
you. I would not believe it, but I met one or two people who did
not die and they told me what happened.'
And Obierika told them all the story.
Three months ago, said Obierika, 'a few men came into
Umuofia. They were running away from Abame and they wanted
to stay in Umuofia with us. They told us this terrible story.
These men said that a white man had come to their village
'You mean a man who was an albino23?" asked Okonkwo.
'No. He was not an albino. This man was different,' said Obierika,
49
==End of OCR for page 26==
---
==Start of OCR for page 27==
News Comes from Umuofia
drinking his palm-wine.
'This man,' continued Obierika, 'was riding an iron horse
The first villagers who saw this white man ran away, but he waved
to them and asked them to come and talk to him. Some of them
went up to him and even touched his body.
"The important men in the clan asked the Oracle about the
white man, continued Obierika. "The Oracle told them that the
stranger would break up their clan and destroy it. The Oracle also
said that more white men would come to Abame later on.'
Obierika took a drink of wine, and went on talking.
'Because of the words of the Oracle,' said Obierika, 'the clans
men killed this white stranger and tied his iron horse to a tree
They thought it might run away to tell the white man's friends.
'What did the white man say before they killed him?" asked
Uchendu.
50
News Comes from Umuofia
'He said nothing,' answered one of the friends of Obierika.
'He said something, but nobody understood him,' said
Obierika.
'One of the men told me,' said Obierika's other friend, 'that
he repeated one word many times. That word sounded like
Mbaino. Perhaps he was going to Mbaino and had lost his way.'
'Anyway,' continued Obierika, 'they killed this white man
and tied his iron horse to a tree. For a long time, nothing
happened. The iron horse was still tied to the tree. And then one
morning, three white men came to the clan at Abame. They were
led by a group of black men like us. Then they all went away.'
Everyone listened to the story Obierika was telling them. It
was the most interesting news they had heard for a long time.
"Most of the men and women in Abame were working on their
farms, said Obierika, 'so only a few people saw these white men
come into the village. For many weeks nothing else happened.
Then one day, when nearly everyone in the clan was at the
market, the three white men and some other men surrounded
the market. They must have used a powerful medicine to stop
people from seeing them until the market was full. Then the white
men began to shoot at the people. Everyone in the village was
killed except the old people and the sick people who had stayed
at home.'
Obierika paused.
'The clan at Abame is now destroyed,' continued Obierika.
'No one is left there. Even the fish in the lake have gone away
and the water in the lake has turned the colour of blood. Great
destruction has come to Abame, as the Oracle had promised.'
There was a long silence, then suddenly Uchendu shouted.
'Never kill a man who says nothing,' said Uchendu. 'Those
men in Abame were foolish. What did they know about the white
man?'
'They were very foolish, said Okonkwo, after another silence.
'The Oracle had told them that something bad was going to
51
==End of OCR for page 27==
---
==Start of OCR for page 28==
News Comes from Umuofia
happen. The people should have taken their guns and their
matchets when they went to the market.'
'The people were foolish,' said Obierika. "They have suffered
because they were foolish. But I am very frightened. We have
all heard stories about white men who make powerful guns and
strong drinks and who take slaves across the sea. But no one
thought these stories were true.'
'Every story is true,' replied Uchendu. 'Life is different for
different people. Some things are good for some people and bad
for others. We must believe what we hear about the white man.'
Okonkwo's first wife soon finished the cooking and gave
the guests a big meal. Nwoye brought in a pot of fresh
sweet wine.
'You are a big man now,' Obierika said to Nwoye.
Ezinma brought in a bowl of water and everyone washed their
hands. After that, they started to eat and drink. When they had
finished the meal, Obierika pointed to the two heavy bags on
the floor.
'That is the money for your yams,' he said to Okonkwo. 'I
sold the big yams when you left, and later I sold some of the small
yams. I shall sell your yams every year for you until you return
I thought you would need the money now so I brought it. Who
knows what might happen tomorrow? White men have already
come to see us. Perhaps green men will come to our clan next and
shoot us.'
Obierika laughed as he said these last words.
'Our gods will not let that happen,' replied Okonkwo. 'Thank
you very much for coming to see us all here. I do not know how
to thank you enough for bringing my money and the news about
Abame.'
52
The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
'Don't thank me,' replied Obierika. 'You are my best friend
and it is a duty to come and see you.'
Then Obierika and his two friends left Okonkwo and went
back to Umuofia.
15
The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
While Okonkwo and his family were living in Mbanta, the
mission aries 24 arrived in the village. There were six of
them and one of them was a white man.
Every man and woman came out of their compounds to see the
white man. They had all heard stories about the first white man
who had been killed at Abame and about his iron horse tied to a
tree. And so everyone came to see this new white man.
When all the people had met in the village, the white man
began to speak to them. He spoke in English and the people did
not understand him.
But he had an interpreter with him to speak to the people. The
interpreter repeated all the white man's words in their language.
This interpreter was from a different clan. He was not from
Mbanta. But he told the people he was like them. He said he
was an African. They could see he was an African because he was
black and because he spoke a language they could understand.
This interpreter said the other four Africans with him were the
brothers of the people in Mbanta. He said that the white man was
their brother because they were all the sons of God. He told
the people of Mbanta about this new God, who had made all the
world and all the men and women in the world.
He told the people of Mbanta that they prayed to gods made of
53
==End of OCR for page 28==
---
==Start of OCR for page 29==
The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
wood and stone. He told them these gods were not true gods. The
people in the crowd were surprised when he said this. They started
whispering to each other.
The interpreter told them other things too. He told them
about Heaven. This was a place high above the sky. God lived
in Heaven. Good men and women who prayed to God went to
Heaven when they died. They lived happily with God in Heaven.
But there was another terrible place deep under the ground.
This place was called Hell. There was a huge fire burning in Hell.
Bad men and women who prayed to gods made of wood or stone
went to Hell when they died. They were burnt in the huge fire
in Hell.
The interpreter then said, 'We have come to help you. The
great God has sent us. You must stop worshipping your false gods
and worship the true God. If you worship Him, then you will go to
Heaven when you die.'
The people listened and became more and more surprised.
Some of them were becoming interested in what the interpreter
was saying.
One man asked the interpreter a question.
'Where is the white man's iron horse?" asked the man.
The black missionaries talked to each other for a few
moments. They decided the man asking the question meant
the white man's bicycle, when he talked about the iron horse.
The missionaries told the white man about the question and he
smiled gently.
'Tell them, the white man said, 'that I shall bring many iron
horses when we come to live in Mbanta. Many of the people will
even ride the horses themselves.'
The interpreter told the people this but they did not listen.
They were too busy talking to each other because the white man
had said he was going to live in Mbanta. They had not thought
about the white man coming to live among them.
At this moment an old man said he wanted to ask a question.
54
You must stop worshipping your false gods and worship the
true God.
==End of OCR for page 29==
---
==Start of OCR for page 30==
The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
'Which is this god of yours?" he asked. 'Is it the goddess of the
earth, or the god of the sky, or another god?"
The interpreter explained this question to the white man.
Then the white man gave his answer. The interpreter explained
to the people what the white man was saying.
'All the gods you have named are not gods at all,' said the
white man. 'They're not true gods because they tell you to kill
each other. Your gods tell you to kill your children if they are born
as twins. There is only one true God and He made the earth, the
sky, you and me and all of us.'
'What will happen if we leave our gods and follow your god!"
asked another man. 'Who will keep us safe from the anger of the
gods we have stopped worshipping?"
'Your gods are not alive and they cannot hurt you,' replied the
white man. 'Your gods are only figures of wood and stone.'
When the men in Mbanta heard these words, they laughed
and laughed at the white man. They thought to themselves that
he must be mad. Any person must be mad to think that their gods
could not hurt people.
Just then, the missionaries started singing a song - a happy
song. The interpreter told the people what the song was about and
everyone listened to the words. After the singing, the interpreter
spoke about the Son of God whose name was Jesus Christ.
Okonkwo was in the crowd. He had listened to all the talking
He was not interested. He stayed at the meeting only because he
wanted to chase the men away from the village with whips.
Then Okonkwo spoke to the interpreter.
'You told us just now that there is only one god,' said
Okonkwo. 'Now you are talking about his son. Your god must
have a wife then.'
The crowd listened and agreed with Okonkwo.
'I did not say He had a wife,' replied the interpreter.
'Yes you did. You said your god had a son called Jesus Christ.
So your god must have a wife as well.'
56
The Missionaries Come to Mbanta
Some of the people began to laugh.
The missionaries did not answer this question. They went on
talking about more things the people did not believe. Okonkwo
thought the interpreter must be very mad. Okonkwo left and went
home to look at his palm trees.
But there was one young boy who had been listening very
carefully to the missionaries. This boy was interested in the new
religion, and his name was Nwoye. Nwoye did not understand
everything the missionaries had said, but the song and the music
had excited him.
After the death of Ikemefuna, Nwoye had become an unhappy
and lonely boy. He did not understand many of the customs of his
clan. He did not understand why his father had killed Ikemefuna.
He did not like the custom of mothers throwing their twins into
the forest to die. This new religion told Nwoye these customs
were cruel and wicked. So Nwoye liked the new religion of the
missionaries. He liked the new religion because it told you to love
everybody.
Nwoye had never liked some of the customs of his clan. But he
had never understood why he did not like the customs. Now this
new religion was giving him some of the answers to his questions.
Nwoye felt much happier inside. The words of the missionaries
seemed to fill up some of the empty spaces he had inside him.
Nwoye left the meeting that day and thought a lot about what he
had heard. Something new and exciting had come into his life
now.
57
==End of OCR for page 30==
---
==Start of OCR for page 31==
16
The Missionaries Build a Church
The missionaries spent the first four or five nights in the market-
place. In the morning they told the people of Mbanta
about God. They asked the people who the king of the village was, but
the people replied that there was no king.
"We have our leaders and our priests and our wise men, but we
do not have a king, the people said.
At last the missionaries found the men who ruled Mbanta.
The missionaries asked these rulers for a piece of land where they
could build a church.
Every clan and village has its Evil Forest. If people died of a
bad illness, they were buried in the Evil Forest. Nobody went into
the Evil Forest because it was full of evil and dangerous spirits.
The people believed that if anyone went into the Evil Forest he
would die.
There was an Evil Forest in Mbanta. The rulers gave this forest
to the missionaries to build their church.
'These missionaries want a piece of land to build a church,
said Uchendu. 'We shall give them a piece of land. We shall give
them a part of the Evil Forest. These men believe their god will
keep them safe. Let them prove it.'
The next morning, the missionaries began to cut down some
of the trees in the Forest. Then they built a small house to live in
The people in Mbanta thought the missionaries would be all
dead after four days.
But the first day passed, and the second day and the third, and
then the fourth. Everyone was very, very surprised that all the
missionaries were still alive. Nobody could understand why the
missionaries had not died in the Evil Forest.
Slowly, the people began to believe that the white man's
58
The Missionaries Build a Church
religion had a special magic power. Soon three people from
Mbanta started to worship the new God. They became the first
three converts25 in the village.
The new religion was called Christianity. The people who
worshipped the new God were called Christians.
Nwoye liked the new religion. He had enjoyed listening to
the missionaries talking about their God. But Nwoye did not
tell anyone that he was interested. He dared not go too near
the missionaries. If Okonkwo found out that Nwoye went to
see the missionaries, he would beat his son very hard. But if the
missionaries ever had a meeting in the open market-place or on
the village playground, Nwoye went and listened to them. He
soon learnt some of the stories the missionaries were telling the
people.
The interpreter's name was Mr Kiaga. He was now in charge
of the few people who had become converts. The white man had
gone to Umuofia where he lived and worked.
'We have now built a church,' said Mr Kiaga to the converts.
'We want all of you to come to church every Sunday to worship
the true God.'
The next Sunday, Nwoye walked past the church one way.
Then he walked past it again the other way. The church was made
of red earth and it had a roof made of straw. Nwoye wanted to
go inside the church but he was too frightened. He heard the
converts singing loudly and happily. Nwoye was very frightened
because the church was built in the Evil Forest. At last, he left the
Forest and went home.
The people in Mbanta knew that their gods were kind. But the
people also knew that the gods would be kind for only a short time.
Then the missionaries and the converts would be punished. The
gods would punish the missionaries before seven weeks were over.
When the seventh week came, the people got more and
more excited. They were sure their gods would punish these
missionaries at the end of seven weeks.
59
==End of OCR for page 31==
---
==Start of OCR for page 32==
The Missionaries Build a Church
At last the day came when all the missionaries should have
died. But they were all still alive. The missionaries were now
building a new house for their interpreter and teacher, Mr Kiaga.
The people could not believe it. The new religion had power.
A few more people began to believe the new religion and they
became converts too. One of the new converts was a woman,
the first woman in Mbanta to become a Christian.
60
17
Nwoye Leaves his Home
One morning, a cousin of Okonkwo was walking past the
church. He saw Nwoye with the other converts. He was
very surprised and when he got home he told Okonkwo. When
Okonkwo heard the news he sat silently and did not move.
Nwoye returned home late in the afternoon. He went to his
father's hut to greet him, but Okonkwo did not answer. Nwoye
turned round to walk away out of the hut. Suddenly Okonkwo
became very, very angry. He jumped up, ran to Nwoye, and held
him by his neck.
'Where have you been?" Okonkwo shouted at Nwoye.
Nwoye tried to get free from his father's hands, but he
could not.
'Answer me,' shouted Okonkwo again, very loudly.
Nwoye stood and looked at his father. He did not say any-
thing. Okonkwo's wives stood outside the hut. They screamed
loudly when they heard Okonkwo beating Nwoye but they were
too frightened to go inside.
'Let that boy go at once,' said a man's voice outside the hut.
It was the voice of Uchendu, Okonkwo's uncle.
'Why do you beat Nwoye like that?" he asked.
Okonkwo did not answer. But he let Nwoye go free. Nwoye
rushed out of the hut and never went home again.
Nwoye went back to the church. He told Mr Kiaga that he had
left his home and was going to Umuofia. In Umuofia the white
missionary had started a school to teach young Christians to read
and write.
When Nwoye told Mr Kiaga that he wanted to go to Umuofia,
Mr Kiaga was very happy. Nwoye was happy, too, because he was
going to leave his father. He decided he would return later to his
61
==End of OCR for page 32==
---
==Start of OCR for page 33==
Some New Converts
mother and his brothers and convert them to the new religion
as well.
Okonkwo sat in his hut the night Nwoye left home. He looked
into the fire and thought about Nwoye and the new religion.
Suddenly Okonkwo felt very angry. He wanted to go to the
church and kill all the converts with his matchet. But then
Okonkwo told himself that Nwoye was not worth fighting for.
Why, Okonkwo asked himself, should I have a son who is
so bad and so weak? Why has my son left the gods of his own
clan? Why is he going with a lot of weak men who talk like a lot
of girls?
Then Okonkwo remembered his own father Unoka. Nwoye
was weak like a girl. So was Nwoye's grandfather.
When I was Nwoye's age, Okonkwo said to himself, I was
famous in all Umuofia for my wrestling and my fighting.
Okonkwo felt very sad when he thought about his weak son.
He was ashamed of Nwoye. Now Nwoye had left his family.
Okonkwo would forget him. Okonkwo knew that he would never
see his son again.
18
Some New Converts
When the church was built in Mbanta, the missionaries did
not have any big problems. At first, the people thought
that the converts would get bored quickly with the new religion.
They thought that the converts would return to worship their
own gods. But they did not and more and more people in the clan
became Christians.
The clan did not worry too much. Most of the converts were
unimportant people, and they did no harm living in the Evil
62
Some New Converts
Forest. Sometimes, in the forest, converts found twins which
had been thrown away by their mothers. The converts brought
the twins back to their own huts but they never took them into
the village.
No one wanted to kill any of the missionaries. The clan
thought the missionaries were mad, but they also thought they
were harmless. And no one would kill a convert. The converts
were unimportant people, but they still belonged to the clan. If
anyone killed a convert he would have to leave the clan. If the
Christians started to make trouble, then the people would chase
them away. But they would not kill the converts.
But slowly, the missionaries and the converts began to have
problems. And these problems were caused by people who were
called osu.
An osu is a person who follows a different god. He cannot
marry an ordinary person. He has to have his hair long and dirty.
He can never be a ruler in the clan. When he dies, he is buried
in the Evil Forest. Ordinary people must not talk to an osu and an
osu is excluded 26 from the clan.
The trouble between the missionaries and the converts began
when the osu people wanted to become converts. The osu saw that
the new religion invited twins into the church, so they thought
they would be welcome, too.
One Sunday, two osu went into the church. The converts
were very surprised but they did not leave the church when the
osu went in. They just moved away and sat a long way from
them.
None of the converts said anything until the end of the singing
and the prayers. Then they all said that the osu people could not
come into the church and they started driving the osu away. But
Mr Kiaga stopped them.
'We are all God's children,' said Mr Kiaga, 'and everybody is
our brother. Even these osu people are our brothers.
'We don't understand,' said one of the converts. 'What will
63
==End of OCR for page 33==
---
==Start of OCR for page 34==
One Sunday, two osu went into the church.
Some New Converts
the villagers say about us when they hear that we are inviting the
osu into our church? The villagers will laugh and make fun of us.'
'Let the villagers laugh at us,' replied Mr Kiaga. 'God will
laugh at the villagers when they die and go to Hell.'
'You don't understand,' said the convert again. 'You are our
teacher and you can teach us the things about the new religion.
But we know about the osu people and we must not mix with
them.'
'An osu needs God more than you do,' said Mr Kiaga.
Then he told the converts that they must let the osu into the
church if they wanted to come in. He told the converts that
Christianity is a religion of love. Christians must love both twins
and osu.
'Then I shall go back to the clan,' said the convert.
Mr Kiaga said nothing. So the convert left and went back to
his clansmen. Mr Kiaga did not try to stop him. He had to make
sure that his converts really believed that all men are equal and are
brothers.
Mr Kiaga told the osu people to cut off their long, dirty hair.
At first they thought they would die if they cut off their hair,
so they refused.
"Unless you cut off your hair,' said Mr Kiaga, 'I will not let any
of you come into the church. You are not osu any more. You are
Christians and you must believe what I tell you.'
The osu looked at him. They did not know what to do.
'Why do you think you will die if you cut your hair off?" Mr
Kiaga asked them. 'Are you different from other men who cut
their hair? The same God made you and them. But your brothers
in the clan have chased you away from the clan. They say that you
will die if you cut your hair off. They said I would die if I built the
church in the Evil Forest. Am 1 dead? They also said that I would
die if looked after twins. I've looked after twins, and I am still
alive. People who don't believe in my God speak only lies. Only
the words of God are true.'
65
==End of OCR for page 34==
---
==Start of OCR for page 35==
The Death of a Holy Snake
So the two osu cut off their long, dirty hair and soon they
were two of the best converts in the church. And nearly all
the other osu in Mbanta followed them and became Christians
as well.
19
The Death of a Holy Snake
A year later one of the osu, who was a convert, was in trouble
with the clan in Mbanta. The trouble started because this
osu killed a holy snake.
Everyone believed that the holy snake came from the god of
water. The holy snake was the most respected animal in Mbanta.
The snake was called 'Our Father', and it could go anywhere it
wanted to go. It could even go into people's beds. Nobody would
stop it.
If a clansman killed the snake by accident, he had to say
special prayers to the gods and he gave the animal an expensive
burial. Nobody thought that a man would kill a holy snake on
purpose and so no one had ever heard about a punishment for
killing it.
Nobody saw this osu kill the snake, but everyone thought he
had killed it. The rulers of Mbanta met to decide what to do. Some
of them were very angry. Okonkwo said there would never be
any peace in Mbanta until all the worthless Christians had been
chased away from the village with whips. Some of the other rulers
did not agree with Okonkwo.
Nobody saw the osu kill the snake,' they said. "If a man killed an
animal secretly in his own hut, only the gods can punish him. If we
66
The Death of a Holy Snake
punish him, then the gods might punish us. This is wise. So we
will not punish him.'
Okonkwo did not agree with these rulers.
"These converts are making this clan weaker and weaker,' said
Okonkwo. 'We are all becoming cowards.'
'Okonkwo is speaking the truth,' said another man. 'We must
do something. Let us exclude these Christians from the clan.
Then the gods will not think that we agree with the things
they do.'
Everyone at the meeting spoke. In the end they all agreed
not to let the Christians take any part in the life of the clan any
more. Okonkwo felt ashamed of the clan in Mbanta. His own
clan in Umuofia would not be so weak and cowardly as this clan
in Mbanta.
The next day was a Wednesday. It was the Wednesday in
Holy Week. This was the most important week of the year for
Christians.
Mr Kiaga had asked the women converts to bring red earth
and white chalk and water to clean the church. The women had
made three groups for the cleaning. One group went to the stream
to get water in their pots. The second group went to collect red
earth in their baskets. And the third group went to find chalk.
Mr Kiaga was praying in the church when he heard the women
talking excitedly outside. He went to see what was happening.
The women had come to the church with empty water pots. They
said that some men had chased them away from the stream with
whips.
Soon after that, the women who had gone for red earth
returned with empty baskets. Some of them had been whipped
badly. The women who had gone for chalk came back with empty
baskets as well.
'What does all this mean?" asked Mr Kiaga, who was very
worried.
'The clan has excluded us from doing things in the village,'
67
==End of OCR for page 35==
---
==Start of OCR for page 36==
Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
said one of the women. 'The people of the clan will not let us take
water from the stream.'
'The clan wants to make our lives difficult,' said another
woman. 'They will not let us go to market.'
'Come with us,' the men said to the women. 'We will go with
you to meet these people who have stopped you getting water.'
But Mr Kiaga stopped the converts leaving. He wanted to
know why the converts had been excluded from the clan.
'The clan says that the new osu convert killed the holy snake,'
said one man.
'It's not true,' said another. 'The osu told me he did not
kill it.'
Nobody could find out the truth about the snake. The new osu
convert was not there. He had become ill the night before and he
died very quickly. His death showed the clan that the gods had
punished him for killing the snake.
Now the osu was dead, the clan did not have any reason to
exclude the converts from the clan. The Christians were once
again allowed back in to the clan.
20
Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
The seven years Okonkwo and his family spent in Mbanta
finished at last. Okonkwo could now return to Umuofia.
Before Okonkwo left Mbanta he prepared a large meal. He
wanted to thank his mother for looking after him and his family.
A lot of important people came to the big meal and everybody
enjoyed it.
68
Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
When Okonkwo got back to his village in Umuofia, he
wanted all his own clansmen to notice him. He wanted them to
think he was still an important person. So Okonkwo built a very
large compound. It was much bigger than his first one. He built a
bigger barn. And he built huts for his two new wives.
Okonkwo hoped everyone in Umuofia would still respect
him. He still wanted to be one of the leaders of the clan.
Umuofia had changed a lot during the seven years Okonkwo
had been away. The new religion had also come to Umuofia
and the missionaries had built a church. Many people had
become converts. The clan did not worry because most of the
converts were unimportant people. But one or two converts
were important men in the clan. The missionary was proud of
these important men who gave up their own gods to follow the
Christian God.
The white missionary had brought religion to Umuofia.
Another white man, called the District Commissioner, brought
a new kind of government. The Commissioner built a new court.
In the court he judged people who disobeyed the new laws.
This Commissioner also had messengers to find men who
broke the white man's law.
Most of the messengers came from another part of Africa. The
people in Umuofia hated these messengers because they were
strangers and because they were proud. The messengers thought
they were better than the people of Umuofia. They did not follow
the laws of Umuofia.
These messengers guarded the prison. Inside the prison were
many clansmen who had broken the new law of the white man.
The messengers used to beat the men in prison. The prisoners
were forced to clean the Commissioner's compound and collect
wood for his fires.
When Okonkwo heard that some of the important men in the
clan were in prison, he was very sad.
Perhaps I have been away from Umuofia too long, Okonkwo
69
==End of OCR for page 36==
---
==Start of OCR for page 37==
Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
said. "I cannot understand the things I hear. What has happened
to our clan? Why cannot our people fight in the way they used to
fight in the past?
'Why has everyone become weak?" Okonkwo asked his
friends.
Then Okonkwo's friend, Obierika, spoke.
'Have you not heard how the white man destroyed everything
70
Okonkwo Returns to Umuofia
in Abame?" asked Obierika. 'I think I told you when I came to see
you in Mbanta.'
'Yes, you did,' replied Okonkwo. 'But the people in Abame
were weak and foolish. Why didn't they fight back? Didn't they
have guns and matchets to use? We must not be weak like the
people in Abame. We must fight these white men and chase them
away from our country.'
'It's too late to do that,' replied Obierika sadly. 'Our own men
have joined the white man's religion and they like the white man's
government. We could easily drive the white men away from our
country. There are only two white men the missionary and the
commissioner. But what could we do with our own clansmen
who have become converts? If we fought the converts, they
would bring soldiers. These soldiers would destroy Umuofia as
they destroyed Abame.
'The white man is very clever,' continued Obierika. 'He came
to our country quietly and peacefully with his new religion. We
thought he was foolish so we laughed at him and we let him live
among us. Now many of our clansmen follow his religion and
his laws. Once our leaders and our own religion held our people
together. Now the white man has broken up the clan. Our clan is
falling apart.'
Obierika stopped talking. Both he and Okonkwo sat in
silence. They were too sad to say any more. They both knew
that the white man was beginning to control Umuofia with his
religion and his laws.
71
==End of OCR for page 37==
---
==Start of OCR for page 38==
21
The Rule of the White Man Grows
Most people in Umuofia thought that the white man's
religion was mad. They thought it was mad, so they did
not worry about it too much. The white man had brought religion
with him but he had also brought trade. Umuofia was getting rich.
It was selling crops to other countries.
Mr Brown, the white missionary, was a kind man. He told his
converts not to make the other people in the clan angry. He told
them not to say bad things about the gods of the clan. Mr Brown
did not make everyone become a Christian. Nearly everybody
in the clan liked him and respected him. Some of the important
clansmen became his friends and they often gave him presents
because they liked him.
Mr Brown used to have long talks with some of the clansmen.
He learnt a lot about the old religions of the clan. He decided that
he could not make everyone become a Christian and worship his
God. So he decided to change the people slowly.
Mr Brown built a school and a little hospital. He went round
from family to family asking people to send their children to his
new school. At first, they sent only their slaves and sometimes
their lazy children.
Mr Brown told the people it was very important to read and
write. He said that soon the leaders of the clan would be people
who could read and write. If people in Umuofia did not send their
children to school to learn, then strangers would come from other
countries and rule them.
Slowly more and more people went to the school. Not all the
students were children. Some of the students were thirty years
old. Some were even older.
These men worked on their farms in the mornings and went
72
The Rule of the White Man Grows
to school in the afternoons. After a few months at school, some
of them became court messengers or even court clerks. Those
students who stayed at the school for a longer time became
teachers.
Slowly new churches were built in the little villages around
Umuofia and new schools were started. Mr Brown worked very
hard. More and more of the clansmen became converts.
One day, Mr Brown went to see Okonkwo. He wanted to tell
Okonkwo about his son, Nwoye. Nwoye now had the Christian
name of Isaac. He was a convert and he had gone to a new college
for teachers. Mr Brown hoped Okonkwo would be happy to know
the news about his son.
But Okonkwo was not happy. Instead Okonkwo was very
angry and he chased Mr Brown away from his compound.
Okonkwo told him that if he came back again he would give
Mr Brown a beating.
Okonkwo was not happy in Umuofia. Nobody took any
notice of him when he returned. The clan had changed a lot in
the seven years. Most people were interested in the new religion
or the new government or the new trading places. They talked
about the new way of life in Umuofia. They talked a lot about
the good things the white men had brought with them. But they
did not talk about the bravery of Okonkwo any more.
This made Okonkwo very sad. He was sad because nobody
noticed him very much. He was also sad because his clan was
breaking up and falling apart. They had become soft and weak
like women. They had all changed. These changes were made by
the white men. Okonkwo began to hate these white men in his
country.
A little later, Mr Brown became ill and he had to leave Umuofia
for ever. The man who came after him was called Mr Smith.
73
==End of OCR for page 38==
---
==Start of OCR for page 39==
The Rule of the White Man Grows
Mr Smith was very different from Mr Brown. Mr Smith did not
like the African people and he was always rude to them.
One day, there was a meeting of all the leaders of the
clan. The leaders met to give thanks to the Earth God-
dess. They dressed up in special clothes and wore masks on
their faces.
One of the converts, called Enoch, said rude things about
the leaders at the meeting. One of the clan hit Enoch with
a stick and Enoch hit him back and tore off the man's
mask.
The clan was very angry. Enoch had taken off a leader's mask
at a very important religious meeting. The clansmen decided to
punish Enoch. The next day, some of them went to his com
pound. The converts knew the clansmen would attack Enoch,
so Mr Smith hid Enoch in his own house.
The clansmen went to Enoch's compound. They set fire to his
huts and burnt them down. Then, still angry and excited, they
went to the church. Mr Smith was in the church. He heard the
men coming so he went to meet them at the door. Mr Smith's
interpreter stood behind him.
74
The Rule of the White Man Grows
'Tell the white man we will not harm him,' said one of the
clansmen. 'Tell the white man to go back to his house and leave
us alone.'
Mr Smith and the interpreter just looked at the clansman.
Then the same man spoke again.
'We liked Mr Brown,' said the clansman. 'Mr Brown was
foolish, but we liked him. Because we liked him, we will not harm
his friend here,' the clansman said. 'But we must burn the church
down. The church has given us many problems so we have come
to destroy it.'
Then the clansman spoke to Mr Smith.
'You can stay here in Umuofia with us if you want to,' he said.
'You can worship your own God if you want to. But you must
worship Him in your own house. You must not convert any more
of our people to your religion. Go back to your house. We are
very, very angry, but we will not harm you.'
Mr Smith listened to this speech, and then he spoke to his
interpreter.
Tell them to go away from here,' he said. 'The church is the
house of God. I will not let the church be destroyed by people who
don't believe in my religion.'
The interpreter was frightened of the clansmen, so he did
not tell them what Mr Smith had said. Instead he told a
lie.
'The white man says he is happy you have come to tell him
your problems. He will be happy if you let him decide what to do,'
the interpreter replied.
'We can't let him decide what to do,' said one of the leaders.
'He does not understand our way of life and we don't understand
his way of life. Tell him to go away.'
The clansmen were very angry. They had come to burn the
church down. So they set fire to the church and soon it was
burning.
Mr Smith did not go home. He stood and watched the church
75
==End of OCR for page 39==
---
==Start of OCR for page 40==
Okonkwo is Put in Prison
which Mr Brown had built, burning to the ground.
The clansmen went away happy. They had punished the
Christians for taking the mask off one of their leaders at the
meeting. They thought the Christians would not make any more
trouble in Umuofia.
22
Okonkwo is Put in Prison
After the clan had burnt down the church in Umuofia,
Okonkwo was very, very happy. He was happier than he
had been for many years. His clan was once again strong and
brave. His people were not afraid of the Christians any more.
They had not killed the white man, but they had burnt down
his church. They had told the white man that he must not try to
convert any more clansmen to the new religion.
For two days after the burning of the church, nothing hap
pened. Every man in Umuofia walked about with a gun or a
matchet. They were not going to be foolish like the people of
Abame. The people of Abame had all been killed because they
did not have guns or matchets when the white man came.
Then the Commissioner returned to Umuofia. He was away
visiting another village when the clan burnt the church. When
the Commissioner got back, Mr Smith told him what had
happened.
Three days later, the Commissioner sent a polite messenger
to the leaders of Umuofia. The messenger asked the leaders to
meet the Commissioner in his office. Okonkwo was one of the six
leaders who went to see the Commissioner.
The six leaders went to the Commissioner's office. They took
76
Okonkwo is Put in Prison
their matchets with them, but they left their guns at home. The
Commissioner met them politely.
'I have asked you to come,' he said to the leaders, 'to talk
about the burning of the church. I was not in Umuofia when it
happened. Mr Smith told me about it, but I cannot believe his
story until you have told me what happened.'
The Commissioner paused.
'Let us be friends,' he said. 'I don't want to hear that any more
churches have been burnt down ever again.'
One of the leaders stood up and started to tell the story.
'Wait a minute,' said the Commissioner. 'I want to bring in
my men so that they can hear what you say.'
'Go and bring in my men,' the Commissioner said to his
interpreter.
The interpreter left the room and came back with twelve
men. They all sat down and the leader began to tell his story
again.
Just as the leader began to speak, the twelve men sud-
denly jumped up and tied together the hands of the six
leaders. It was done so quickly that the leaders did not
have time to pick up their matchets. When the messengers
had tied the leaders' hands together, they took them to
another room.
Then the Commissioner spoke to them.
'We shall not hurt you,' he said, 'but you must agree to
help us. I have brought a good government to your coun-
try to make your people happy and peaceful. If any man
hurts you, I will help you. But I will not let you hurt
anyone else.'
The six leaders said nothing, so the Commissioner con-
tinued.
'You burnt down Enoch's compound. Then you burnt down
the church. I must punish you for doing these things. As a
punishment you must give the court two hundred bags of cowrie
77
==End of OCR for page 40==
---
==Start of OCR for page 41==
Okonkwo is Put in Prison
shells. When you have done this, I will let you all go free,' the
Commissioner said.
The leaders still said nothing, so the Commissioner spoke
to them. 'What do you want to say?" he asked.
The six leaders sat in silence. They did not speak. The
Commissioner told his men to look after the six men well as they
were the leaders of Umuofia. The messengers said, 'Yes, Sir,' and
the Commissioner went away.
When the Commissioner had gone, one of the messengers
got a razor and cut off the hair of all the leaders. The leaders'
hands were still tied together so they could not fight. They sat
and looked miserable.
The six leaders refused to eat any food for two days. The
messengers did not give them any water to drink. At night the
messengers went into the prison to laugh at the men and to bang
their heads together. On the third day, the men were very, very
78
Okonkwo is Put in Prison
hungry. They began to talk to each other. They talked about
getting the cowrie shells from the clansmen so that they could
go free.
'We should have killed the white man,' said Okonkwo.
'Who wants to kill the white man?" asked a messenger, who
heard what Okonkwo had said.
Nobody spoke. The messenger had a very thick stick in his
hand. He hit each man on his head and his back many times.
Okonkwo was very angry. He was so angry he could not speak.
As soon as the messengers had locked up the six men that
day, they went to the people of Umuofia. They told the
people that the Commissioner would not free their leaders
until they gave the court two hundred and fifty bags of cowrie
shells.
'If you don't give the cowrie shells immediately,' said one of
the messengers, 'we will hang your leaders.'
Soon, everyone in the villages heard the news about the
leaders of Umuofia. Everyone was frightened. Everyone stayed
in their huts. No one went out to visit friends that night.
None of the children played on the village green in the
moonlight.
The only noise was the voice of the town-crier. He walked
slowly round the villages of Umuofia. He hit his gong and told
every man to go to a meeting in the market-place in the morning.
The crier walked from one end of Umuofia to the other. Everyone
heard what he said.
The next morning, the men of Umuofia went to the market-
place. They agreed to give the white man two hundred and fifty
bags of cowrie shells immediately.
The men of Umuofia did not know that fifty of these bags
would be taken by the court messengers. The white man had
asked for two hundred bags but his messengers asked the people
for two hundred and fifty bags. The messengers would keep the
other fifty bags for themselves.
79
==End of OCR for page 41==
---
==Start of OCR for page 42==
23
Okonkwo Kills a Messenger
The people of Umuofia gave the cowries to the messengers.
Then Okonkwo and the five other leaders were let out of
prison.
Okonkwo went back to his compound. Ezinma cooked some
food for him. Okonkwo ate it but he was not hungry. He was still
very angry.
Okonkwo's family and friends were in his hut with him.
Obierika told Okonkwo to eat up all the food. Nobody else
spoke. Okonkwo's friends saw the long marks on Okonkwo's
back. The court messengers had made these marks when they
had beaten him.
The town-crier walked around the village of Umuofia again
that night. He hit his gong and told the people that there was
another meeting in the morning. Everyone knew that at last the
people of Umuofia were going to speak angrily about the white
man and the Christians.
Okonkwo did not sleep much that night. He was still very
angry, but he was also excited. He was looking forward to the
morning. Before he went to bed, he unpacked his war clothes.
Okonkwo had not looked at his war clothes since he had come
back to his village in Umuofia. He looked at his straw skirt and his
hat with its large feather. He decided they were still good enough
to use.
As Okonkwo lay on his bed he thought about the cruel way
the white man had treated him. He decided to punish the white
man for what had happened. Okonkwo would be happy if the
people of Umuofia decided to go to war with the white man. But if
the people of Umuofia were too frightened to fight, then he would
fight alone. Okonkwo lay on his bed thinking what he would do
80
Okonkwo Kills a Messenger
to the people in the morning. Slowly he went to sleep.
As the sun rose, people began to go to the market-place.
Okonkwo went to meet Obierika, and the two men walked
together to the market. When they got there the market-place
was full, but more and more people kept arriving. Okonkwo was
very happy to see so many clansmen at the meeting.
Then a man stood up and shouted a greeting to the people.
'Umuofia kwenu,' he shouted. These words mean, 'We greet
you, Umuofia.' The man then raised his left hand high in the air.
'Yaa,' all the people shouted back.
'Umuofia kwenu,' the man shouted again.
Each time the man shouted these words, he faced a different
direction. Each time the crowd shouted back, 'Yaa'.
Then everyone was silent. Another man, called Okika, stood
up and began to speak.
'You all know why we are here,' Okika said. 'All our gods are
crying. They are crying because our clansmen have made them
unhappy.
Okika stopped. His voice was shaking. Then he continued.
"This is a great meeting,' said Okika, 'but are all the men of
Umuofia here?" he asked. 'Are all the men of Umuofia meeting
together in agreement?"
When the crowd heard Okika say this, they began to talk
quietly to each other.
'No. They are not all here,' continued Okika. 'Some of our
men have left the clan and follow the white man's way of life. We
follow the way of life of our fathers. The men who are not here
have left us now and follow a stranger in their own country.'
Okika paused, and looked at the crowd. Then he went on.
'If we fight this stranger, this white man, we shall also fight our
81
==End of OCR for page 42==
---
==Start of OCR for page 43==
Okonkwo Kills a Messenger
clansmen who follow him,' said Okika. 'We shall be fighting our
own people. But we must fight the white man. We must fight our
own people who follow him. We must drive away this white man
and his new religion. We must fight now.'
At that moment, there was a sudden movement in the crowd
and everyone looked in the same direction. Five court
messengers were standing a few feet from the crowd. Nobody had
seen them arrive. They had come silently.
Okonkwo was sitting near them. He jumped to his feet
immediately and stood in front of the chief messenger. Okonkwo
was shaking with anger and hate. He could not speak. The
messenger stood still and looked at Okonkwo. The other four
messengers stood behind their friend. The crowd was silent.
Nobody spoke a word.
'Let me come past, the chief messenger said at last.
'What do you want here?" asked Okonkwo.
'I have come with a message from the white man, the
messenger replied. 'The white man says that you must stop this
meeting at once.'
Suddenly Okonkwo lifted his matchet. The messenger saw
that Okonkwo was going to hit him. The messenger bent down
to escape from Okonkwo's matchet but he was too late. Okonkwo
brought down his matchet twice, and the messenger's head lay on
the ground beside his body.
The people in the crowd ran in all directions. The meeting
was stopped. Okonkwo stood and looked at the dead messenger.
Okonkwo knew then that the people of Umuofia would not fight
the white man. Okonkwo knew it because they had let the other
four messengers run away. He heard some men talking.
'Why did Okonkwo kill the messenger?" they asked each
other.
Okonkwo then knew that he was alone. He was alone without
his clan. He was still brave and strong but his clan was weak and
cowardly. He had fought the white man by himself. His clansmen
82
The Death of Okonkwo
were cowards. The white man had broken up the clan. His people
had fallen apart. The clan did not agree any more.
Okonkwo wiped his matchet after he had killed the messen-
ger, and walked away.
24
The Death of Okonkwo
The four messengers who had run away from the meeting went
straight to the Commissioner. They told the Commissioner
that Okonkwo had killed their friend. Then the Commissioner
went with some soldiers and his messengers to Okonkwo's
compound.
When the Commissioner arrived at the compound, he
ordered the men in Okonkwo's hut to come outside. They got
up and went outside.
'Which one of you is called Okonkwo?" asked the Commis-
sioner.
'Okonkwo is not here,' replied Obierika.
'Where is he?" asked the Commissioner.
'Okonkwo is not here,' Obierika said again.
The Commissioner became angry. His face went red. He told
the men that he wanted to see Okonkwo immediately. He said
they must give Okonkwo to him, or he would lock all of them up
in the prison.
The men spoke quietly to each other. Then Obierika spoke.
'We can take you to where Okonkwo is, and perhaps your
men can help us,' he said.
The Commissioner did not understand what Obierika meant
when he said, 'Perhaps your men can help us.'
'Follow us,' said Obierika, and he led the way.
83
==End of OCR for page 43==
---
==Start of OCR for page 44==
The Death of Okonkwo
The Commissioner and his soldiers followed. The soldiers car-
ried guns. The Commissioner told the soldiers to shoot Obierika
and his men if they tried to run away.
Obierika led the men to a place just outside one of the walls
of Okonkwo's compound. Then they came to a tree. Okonkwo's
body was hanging from the tree. Okonkwo knew that the white
man would hang him if he found him alive. So Okonkwo had
decided to hang himself.
'Perhaps your men can help us cut Okonkwo's body down
from the tree. And perhaps they can bury him,' said Obierika.
'We have sent for strangers from another village. We have asked
them to come and cut him down, but they may not come for a
long time.'
'Why can't you take the body down yourselves?" the Commis
sioner asked.
'It is against our laws, replied one of the men. 'It is a crime for
a man to kill himself. It is a crime against the Earth Goddess, and
the man who kills himself cannot be buried by his own clansmen.
His body is bad and only strangers can touch it.'
Obierika looked at the Commissioner and his men.
'You are strangers in Umuofia,' Obierika said. "That is why we
are asking you to cut down Okonkwo's body from the tree.'
'Will you bury him like any other man?" asked the Commis
sioner.
'We cannot bury him,' replied Obierika. 'Only strangers can
bury a man who has killed himself.'
Obierika stopped talking and looked at the body of his friend
hanging from the tree.
'We will pay your men to cut Okonkwo's body down and to
bury him,' Obierika said. 'When you have buried him, we will ask
the Earth Goddess to make the land clean again.'
Obierika suddenly turned to look at the Commissioner. Then
he screamed out loudly, with great anger in his voice.
'That man hanging there,' shouted Obierika, 'was one of the
84
The Death of Okonkwo
greatest men in Umuofia. You made him kill himself and now he
will be buried like a dog...'
Obierika's voice shook with anger. He was so angry and so
miserable that he could not say any more.
'Keep quiet,' shouted one of the messengers to Obierika.
'Take the body down,' said the Commissioner to the chief
messenger. 'Bring the body of Okonkwo and all these people to
the court.'
'Yes, sir,' replied the messenger.
So they cut down the hanging body of Okonkwo and carried
him on their shoulders to the court of the white man.
85
==End of OCR for page 44==
---
==Start of OCR for page 45==
Points for Understanding
1
1 What district did Okonkwo live in?
2 Why was Okonkwo ashamed of his father, Unoka?
3 Why did the clan respect Okonkwo?
2
1 Why were the other districts afraid of Umuofia?
2 What happened to Ikemefuna?
3
1 Why did Okonkwo keep beating Nwoye!
2 Why was Nwoye pleased when Ikemefuna came to live with
Okonkwo's family?
3 Why did Okonkwo never let anyone see that he was kind?
4
1 How did Okonkwo break the rules of the Week of Peace?
2 Why did Ezeani tell Okonkwo to take certain things to the shrine
of the Earth Goddess?
3 Why did Okonkwo not tell anyone that he was sorry?
4 Why were the other villagers not pleased with Okonkwo!
5
Why were the first two days of the New Year so important?
Why was Ekwefi so excited when she heard the drums?
6
Why was Okonkwo happy when Nwoye complained about the
women?
What sort of stories did Nwoye like to listen to?
What was going to happen to Ikemefuna?
What did Ezeudu tell Okonkwo not to do?
87
==End of OCR for page 45==
---
==Start of OCR for page 46==
7
1 How had Okonkwo broken one of the rules of the clan?
2 How did Nwoye feel when he was sure that Ikemefuna had been
killed?
3 When did Nwoye lose his love for Okonkwo?
8
1 Why did Okonkwo think that he had become like a woman?
2 Why did Okonkwo wish that he had a son like Maduka?
3 How did Okonkwo feel after he had talked to Obierika?
9
1 Why did Ekwefi love Ezinma so much?
2 Ezinma was an ogbanje. What does that mean?
10
1 Who was Chielo?
2 Where did Chielo want to take Ezinma?
3 What did Ekwefi decide to do when Chielo took Ezinma away!
11
1 How did the priestess, Chielo, get in and out of the cave of the
god, Agbala?
2 Why were Ekwefi and Okonkwo happy that Ezinma had gone
into the cave of the god, Agbala?
12
1 Was the death of Ezeudu's son an accident?
2 What was the difference between a 'male' crime and a 'female'
crime?
3 What was Okonkwo's punishment?
4 Where was Okonkwo going to go?
5 What happened to Okonkwo's compound!
88
13
1 Where did Okonkwo go to in Mbanta?
2 What had always been Okonkwo's one big wish?
3 Did Okonkwo think this wish would ever come true now?
4 What did Uchendu mean when he said, 'Mother is most
important of all'?
5 What was Uchendu's advice to Okonkwo?
14
1 Who was the stranger at Abame and how did he come there?
2 What did the Oracle tell the people of Abame about this
stranger?
3 Was the Oracle right?
4 Why did Okonkwo think the people of Abame were foolish?
5 Was Obierika afraid of the stories about the white men?
6 Was Okonkwo afraid of the white men?
15
1 Why did the interpreter say the missionaries had come to
Mbanta?
2 What did the missionary say about the gods of the clan?
3 Why did Okonkwo stay at the meeting?
4 Why did Nwoye stay!
16
1 Why did Nwoye not go too near the missionaries?
2 What did the people of Mbanta think when the missionaries did
not die in the Ev il Forest?
17
1 Why did Okonkwo beat Nwoye?
2 What did Nwoyee do when Okonkwo beat him?
3 What did Nwoyee want to do in Umuofia?
4 Why did Okonkwo remember his father, Unoka?
89
==End of OCR for page 46==
---
==Start of OCR for page 47==
18
1 Why did the clansmen not worry very much about the people
who became converts?
2 Why did no one want to kill the missionaries?
3 How many of the osu became converts?
19
1 Why was Okonkwo ashamed of the clan in Mbanta?
2 Did the rulers of Mbanta continue to exclude the Christians?
20
1 Why did Okonkwo build a very large compound when he
returned to Umuofia?
2 How had Umuofia changed since Okonkwo had left it?
3 What had the District Commissioner brought to Umuofia!
4 Who helped the District Commissioner in his work?
5 Why was Okonkwo sad when he returned to Umuofia?
6 What did Okonkwo want to do to the white men?
7 Why did Obierika think that it was too late to save Umuofia!
21
1 What had the white man brought to Umuofia as well as religion
and government!
2 Why did Mr Brown build a school?
3 Okonkwo was unhappy in Umuofia for two reasons. One reason
was that many people in the clan had accepted the white man
and had become weak. What was the other reason?
4 What did the clansmen think when they burnt the Church!
22
1 Why was Okonkwo happy after the burning of the church?
2 The Commissioner said he had brought a good government to
Umuofia. How does this chapter show that it was an unfair and
dishonest government?
3 How powerful was the new government in Umuofia?
4 What did Okonkwo want to do to the white man now!
90
23
1 Some men of Umuofia were not at the meeting. Who were they?
2 What did Okonkwo do to the chief messenger at the meeting?
3 How did Okonkwo know that the men of Umuofia would not
fight the white man?
4 What had happened to the clan?
24
1 Why did Obierika want the Commissioner's men to help him?
2 What did Obierika say about Okonkwo?
3 What do you think was the reason for Okonkwo's death?
91
==End of OCR for page 47==
---
==Start of OCR for page 48==
Glossary
1 customs (page 4)
the ways of life of a group of people, which make them different
from other people. For example, their way of arranging marriages,
cooking and eating food, burying people etc.
2 wrestler (page 7)
to wrestle is to fight a man by holding him and pushing him to
the ground. A wrestler is a man who fights in this way. (See the
illustration on page 21)
3 bush fire (page 8)
a fire which moves very quickly from one tree to another.
4 palm wine (page 8)
an alcoholic drink which comes from a palm tree. To tap a palm
tree is to make a hole in the tree to take out the liquid in the tree.
The liquid is made into wine.
5 be ashamed of someone (page 8)
to feel unhappy because someone important to you, like you or
your mother, does foolish things.
6 yam (page 9)
a large vegetable which grows in the ground. It is like a very large
potato. It makes very good food.
7 respect someone (page 9)
to be polite to someone because he or she works hard and does
well. To think very well of a person.
8 goatskin bag (page 14)
the skin of a goat is taken very carefully from the dead animal.
The legs are carefully closed and the skin is made into a bag for
holding things.
9 priest/priestess (page 16)
a man or woman who is a special servant of a god. They clean the
place where the image of the god is kept. They do the things that
the god tells them to do. They also tell the people what the god
wants them to do.
10 kola-nuts (page 16)
nuts from the kola tree in West Africa. It is a custom to break
and share the nuts with visitors and guests to show that they are
welcome.
11 evil (page 17)
something very bad which is against the laws of the gods.
92
12 cowrie shells (page 17)
special small shells which were once used as money among people
in parts of Africa and India.
13 Oracle (page 24)
a god who speaks to the people through the mouth of its priest or
priestess and tells the people what to do.
14 matchet (page 25)
a sharp knife (see illustration on page 26).
15 twins (page 28)
two children born at the same time from one mother.
16 Evil Forest (page 28)
a bad place where people don't go because it is dangerous and the
gods cannot protect them.
17 shiver (page 29)
the way a person's body moves when he or she is either very cold
or very afraid.
18 fever (page 32)
when your body becomes very hot with an illness, then you have
a fever.
19 the world of the Spirits (page 33)
some people believe that there is an unseen world all around us.
Good and bad forces live in this unseen world. These forces are
the Spirits. Good Spirits help people and bad Spirits are
dangerous to people. When people die they live another life in
the world of the Spirits.
20 medicine man (page 33)
a man who knows the secrets of the Spirit world. He can ask the
Spirits to help people who are sick or in trouble.
21 explode (page 41)
to break into pieces with a loud noise.
22 commit a crime (page 41)
to disobey the laws in this case, the laws of the gods.
23 albino (page 49)
some people are born with no colour in their skin, hair and eyes.
This makes these people very white. They have very white skin,
white hair and reddish-coloured eyes.
24 missionary (page 53)
a person who goes to another country to tell people about their
God. The missionaries who went from Europe to Africa about
one hundred years ago wanted the Africans to become Christians.
93
==End of OCR for page 48==
---
==Start of OCR for page 49==
A SELECTION OF GUIDED READERS AVAILABLE AT
INTERMEDIATE LEVEL
(page 59)
someone who changes his religion and believes in a new religion.
exclude from the clan (page 63)
to stop a person joining in the life of a clan. The person is not
allowed to do certain things which other people do.
Shane by Jack Schaefer
Old Mali and the Boy by D. R. Sherman
Bristol Murder by Philip Prowse
Tales of Goha by Leslie Caplan
The Smuggler by Piers Plowright
The Pearl by John Steinbeck
Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe
The Woman Who Disappeared by Philip Prowse
The Moon is Down by John Steinbeck
A Town Like Alice by Nevil Shute
The Queen of Death by John Milne
Walkabout by James Vance Marshall
Meet Me in Istanbul by Richard Chisholm
The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald
The Space Invaders by Geoffrey Matthews
My Cousin Rachel by Daphne du Maurier
I'm the King of the Castle by Susan Hill
Dracula by Bram Stoker
The Sign of Four by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
The Speckled Band and Other Stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
The Eye of the Tiger by Wilbur Smith
The Queen of Spades and Other Stories by Aleksandr Pushkin
The Diamond Hunters by Wilbur Smith
When Rain Clouds Gather by Bessie Head
Banker by Dick Francis
No Longer at Ease by Chinua Achebe
The Franchise Affair by Josephine Tey
The Case of the Lonely Lady by John Milne
For further information on the full selection of
Readers at all five levels in the series, please refer
to the Heinemann Readers catalogue.
94
95
==End of OCR for page 49==
---
==Start of OCR for page 50==
Macmillan Heinemann ELT
Road, Oxford OX4 3PP
Heinemann ELT is an imprint of
Macmillan Publishers Limited
Companies and representatives throughout the world
Heinemann is a registered trademark of Pearson Education, used under licence.
ISBN 978-1-405073-15-8
Things Fall Apart Chinua Achebe 1958
First published by William Heinemann in 1958 and first published in
Heinemann Educational Books' African Writers Series in 1962
This retold version by John Davey for Macmillan Readers
First published 1974
Text John Davey 1974, 1992
This edition published 2005
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form, or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without
the prior written permission of the publishers.
Illustrated by Matilda Harrison
Typography by Adrian Hodgkins
Cover illustration by Matilda Harrison
Printed and bound in Sudan
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
21 20 19 18 17 16 15
Sudan Currency Printing Press
==End of OCR for page 50==
---
==Start of OCR for page 51==
INTERMEDIATE
Okonkwo was one of the greatest men in the village
of Umuofia. But then the Europeans came and they
changed Umuofia. They destroyed the old life. They
destroyed Okonkwo too. And he was buried like a dog.
. Notes about the story
. Points for Understanding comprehension questions
. Glossary of difficult vocabulary
. Free resources including worksheets, tests and author
data sheets at www.macmillanenglish.com/readers
المركز القومي للمناهج والبحث التربوي
حقوق التوزيع في جمهورية السودان محفوظة لوزارة التعليم العام
1 Starter
2 Beginner
3 Elementary
4 Pre-intermediate
5 Intermediate
6 Upper
BRITISH ENGLISH
COMMON EUROPEAN FRAMEWORK
AI A2 B1 B2 C1 C2
MACMILLAN READERS
This series provides a wide variety of enjoyable reading
material for all learners of English. Macmillan Readers
are retold versions of popular classic and contemporary
titles as well as specially written stories, published at
six levels.
MACMILLAN
English
DICTIONARY
ISBN 978-1-4050-7315-8
MACMILLAN
Use your Macmillan
English Dictionary
with this book.
9781405073158
==End of OCR for page 51==